Cross Lingual Speech Emotion Recognition: Urdu vs. Western Languages.Cross-lingual speech emotion recognition is an important task for practical applications. The performance of automatic speech emotion recognition systems degrades in cross-corpus scenarios, particularly in scenarios involving multiple languages or a previously unseen language such as Urdu for which limited or no data is available. In this study, we investigate the problem of cross-lingual emotion recognition for Urdu language and contribute URDU---the first ever spontaneous Urdu-language speech emotion database. Evaluations are performed using three different Western languages against Urdu and experimental results on different possible scenarios suggest various interesting aspects for designing more adaptive emotion recognition system for such limited languages. In results, selecting training instances of multiple languages can deliver comparable results to baseline and augmentation a fraction of testing language data while training can help to boost accuracy for speech emotion recognition. URDU data is publicly available for further research.
PDANet: Polarity-consistent Deep Attention Network for Fine-grained   Visual Emotion Regression.Existing methods on visual emotion analysis mainly focus on coarse-grained emotion classification, i.e. assigning an image with a dominant discrete emotion category. However, these methods cannot well reflect the complexity and subtlety of emotions. In this paper, we study the fine-grained regression problem of visual emotions based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Specifically, we develop a Polarity-consistent Deep Attention Network (PDANet), a novel network architecture that integrates attention into a CNN with an emotion polarity constraint. First, we propose to incorporate both spatial and channel-wise attentions into a CNN for visual emotion regression, which jointly considers the local spatial connectivity patterns along each channel and the interdependency between different channels. Second, we design a novel regression loss, i.e. polarity-consistent regression (PCR) loss, based on the weakly supervised emotion polarity to guide the attention generation. By optimizing the PCR loss, PDANet can generate a polarity preserved attention map and thus improve the emotion regression performance. Extensive experiments are conducted on the IAPS, NAPS, and EMOTIC datasets, and the results demonstrate that the proposed PDANet outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches by a large margin for fine-grained visual emotion regression. Our source code is released at: https://github.com/ZizhouJia/PDANet.
A Transformer-based joint-encoding for Emotion Recognition and Sentiment   Analysis.Understanding expressed sentiment and emotions are two crucial factors in human multimodal language. This paper describes a Transformer-based joint-encoding (TBJE) for the task of Emotion Recognition and Sentiment Analysis. In addition to use the Transformer architecture, our approach relies on a modular co-attention and a glimpse layer to jointly encode one or more modalities. The proposed solution has also been submitted to the ACL20: Second Grand-Challenge on Multimodal Language to be evaluated on the CMU-MOSEI dataset. The code to replicate the presented experiments is open-source: https://github.com/jbdel/MOSEI_UMONS.
Attentive Modality Hopping Mechanism for Speech Emotion Recognition.In this work, we explore the impact of visual modality in addition to speech and text for improving the accuracy of the emotion detection system. The traditional approaches tackle this task by fusing the knowledge from the various modalities independently for performing emotion classification. In contrast to these approaches, we tackle the problem by introducing an attention mechanism to combine the information. In this regard, we first apply a neural network to obtain hidden representations of the modalities. Then, the attention mechanism is defined to select and aggregate important parts of the video data by conditioning on the audio and text data. Furthermore, the attention mechanism is again applied to attend important parts of the speech and textual data, by considering other modality. Experiments are performed on the standard IEMOCAP dataset using all three modalities (audio, text, and video). The achieved results show a significant improvement of 3.65% in terms of weighted accuracy compared to the baseline system.
Group-level Emotion Recognition using Transfer Learning from Face   Identification.In this paper, we describe our algorithmic approach, which was used for submissions in the fifth Emotion Recognition in the Wild (EmotiW 2017) group-level emotion recognition sub-challenge. We extracted feature vectors of detected faces using the Convolutional Neural Network trained for face identification task, rather than traditional pre-training on emotion recognition problems. In the final pipeline an ensemble of Random Forest classifiers was learned to predict emotion score using available training set. In case when the faces have not been detected, one member of our ensemble extracts features from the whole image. During our experimental study, the proposed approach showed the lowest error rate when compared to other explored techniques. In particular, we achieved 75.4% accuracy on the validation data, which is 20% higher than the handcrafted feature-based baseline. The source code using Keras framework is publicly available.
A Pilot Study for Chinese SQL Semantic Parsing.The task of semantic parsing is highly useful for dialogue and question answering systems. Many datasets have been proposed to map natural language text into SQL, among which the recent Spider dataset provides cross-domain samples with multiple tables and complex queries. We build a Spider dataset for Chinese, which is currently a low-resource language in this task area. Interesting research questions arise from the uniqueness of the language, which requires word segmentation, and also from the fact that SQL keywords and columns of DB tables are typically written in English. We compare character- and word-based encoders for a semantic parser, and different embedding schemes. Results show that word-based semantic parser is subject to segmentation errors and cross-lingual word embeddings are useful for text-to-SQL.
Learning Joint Semantic Parsers from Disjoint Data.We present a new approach to learning semantic parsers from multiple datasets, even when the target semantic formalisms are drastically different, and the underlying corpora do not overlap. We handle such "disjoint" data by treating annotations for unobserved formalisms as latent structured variables. Building on state-of-the-art baselines, we show improvements both in frame-semantic parsing and semantic dependency parsing by modeling them jointly.
Multitask Parsing Across Semantic Representations.The ability to consolidate information of different types is at the core of intelligence, and has tremendous practical value in allowing learning for one task to benefit from generalizations learned for others. In this paper we tackle the challenging task of improving semantic parsing performance, taking UCCA parsing as a test case, and AMR, SDP and Universal Dependencies (UD) parsing as auxiliary tasks. We experiment on three languages, using a uniform transition-based system and learning architecture for all parsing tasks. Despite notable conceptual, formal and domain differences, we show that multitask learning significantly improves UCCA parsing in both in-domain and out-of-domain settings.
A Transition-Based Directed Acyclic Graph Parser for UCCA.We present the first parser for UCCA, a cross-linguistically applicable framework for semantic representation, which builds on extensive typological work and supports rapid annotation. UCCA poses a challenge for existing parsing techniques, as it exhibits reentrancy (resulting in DAG structures), discontinuous structures and non-terminal nodes corresponding to complex semantic units. To our knowledge, the conjunction of these formal properties is not supported by any existing parser. Our transition-based parser, which uses a novel transition set and features based on bidirectional LSTMs, has value not just for UCCA parsing: its ability to handle more general graph structures can inform the development of parsers for other semantic DAG structures, and in languages that frequently use discontinuous structures.
From Language to Programs: Bridging Reinforcement Learning and Maximum   Marginal Likelihood.Our goal is to learn a semantic parser that maps natural language utterances into executable programs when only indirect supervision is available: examples are labeled with the correct execution result, but not the program itself. Consequently, we must search the space of programs for those that output the correct result, while not being misled by spurious programs: incorrect programs that coincidentally output the correct result. We connect two common learning paradigms, reinforcement learning (RL) and maximum marginal likelihood (MML), and then present a new learning algorithm that combines the strengths of both. The new algorithm guards against spurious programs by combining the systematic search traditionally employed in MML with the randomized exploration of RL, and by updating parameters such that probability is spread more evenly across consistent programs. We apply our learning algorithm to a new neural semantic parser and show significant gains over existing state-of-the-art results on a recent context-dependent semantic parsing task.
Greedy, Joint Syntactic-Semantic Parsing with Stack LSTMs.We present a transition-based parser that jointly produces syntactic and semantic dependencies. It learns a representation of the entire algorithm state, using stack long short-term memories. Our greedy inference algorithm has linear time, including feature extraction. On the CoNLL 2008--9 English shared tasks, we obtain the best published parsing performance among models that jointly learn syntax and semantics.
Global Reasoning over Database Structures for Text-to-SQL Parsing.State-of-the-art semantic parsers rely on auto-regressive decoding, emitting one symbol at a time. When tested against complex databases that are unobserved at training time (zero-shot), the parser often struggles to select the correct set of database constants in the new database, due to the local nature of decoding. In this work, we propose a semantic parser that globally reasons about the structure of the output query to make a more contextually-informed selection of database constants. We use message-passing through a graph neural network to softly select a subset of database constants for the output query, conditioned on the question. Moreover, we train a model to rank queries based on the global alignment of database constants to question words. We apply our techniques to the current state-of-the-art model for Spider, a zero-shot semantic parsing dataset with complex databases, increasing accuracy from 39.4% to 47.4%.
Break It Down: A Question Understanding Benchmark.Understanding natural language questions entails the ability to break down a question into the requisite steps for computing its answer. In this work, we introduce a Question Decomposition Meaning Representation (QDMR) for questions. QDMR constitutes the ordered list of steps, expressed through natural language, that are necessary for answering a question. We develop a crowdsourcing pipeline, showing that quality QDMRs can be annotated at scale, and release the Break dataset, containing over 83K pairs of questions and their QDMRs. We demonstrate the utility of QDMR by showing that (a) it can be used to improve open-domain question answering on the HotpotQA dataset, (b) it can be deterministically converted to a pseudo-SQL formal language, which can alleviate annotation in semantic parsing applications. Last, we use Break to train a sequence-to-sequence model with copying that parses questions into QDMR structures, and show that it substantially outperforms several natural baselines.
Semantic Specialisation of Distributional Word Vector Spaces using   Monolingual and Cross-Lingual Constraints.We present Attract-Repel, an algorithm for improving the semantic quality of word vectors by injecting constraints extracted from lexical resources. Attract-Repel facilitates the use of constraints from mono- and cross-lingual resources, yielding semantically specialised cross-lingual vector spaces. Our evaluation shows that the method can make use of existing cross-lingual lexicons to construct high-quality vector spaces for a plethora of different languages, facilitating semantic transfer from high- to lower-resource ones. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated with state-of-the-art results on semantic similarity datasets in six languages. We next show that Attract-Repel-specialised vectors boost performance in the downstream task of dialogue state tracking (DST) across multiple languages. Finally, we show that cross-lingual vector spaces produced by our algorithm facilitate the training of multilingual DST models, which brings further performance improvements.
SUPERT: Towards New Frontiers in Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for   Multi-Document Summarization.We study unsupervised multi-document summarization evaluation metrics, which require neither human-written reference summaries nor human annotations (e.g. preferences, ratings, etc.). We propose SUPERT, which rates the quality of a summary by measuring its semantic similarity with a pseudo reference summary, i.e. selected salient sentences from the source documents, using contextualized embeddings and soft token alignment techniques. Compared to the state-of-the-art unsupervised evaluation metrics, SUPERT correlates better with human ratings by 18-39%. Furthermore, we use SUPERT as rewards to guide a neural-based reinforcement learning summarizer, yielding favorable performance compared to the state-of-the-art unsupervised summarizers. All source code is available at https://github.com/yg211/acl20-ref-free-eval.
A Multi-Task Approach for Disentangling Syntax and Semantics in Sentence   Representations.We propose a generative model for a sentence that uses two latent variables, with one intended to represent the syntax of the sentence and the other to represent its semantics. We show we can achieve better disentanglement between semantic and syntactic representations by training with multiple losses, including losses that exploit aligned paraphrastic sentences and word-order information. We also investigate the effect of moving from bag-of-words to recurrent neural network modules. We evaluate our models as well as several popular pretrained embeddings on standard semantic similarity tasks and novel syntactic similarity tasks. Empirically, we find that the model with the best performing syntactic and semantic representations also gives rise to the most disentangled representations.
Capturing Semantic Similarity for Entity Linking with Convolutional   Neural Networks.A key challenge in entity linking is making effective use of contextual information to disambiguate mentions that might refer to different entities in different contexts. We present a model that uses convolutional neural networks to capture semantic correspondence between a mention's context and a proposed target entity. These convolutional networks operate at multiple granularities to exploit various kinds of topic information, and their rich parameterization gives them the capacity to learn which n-grams characterize different topics. We combine these networks with a sparse linear model to achieve state-of-the-art performance on multiple entity linking datasets, outperforming the prior systems of Durrett and Klein (2014) and Nguyen et al. (2014).
Label Noise Reduction in Entity Typing by Heterogeneous Partial-Label   Embedding.Current systems of fine-grained entity typing use distant supervision in conjunction with existing knowledge bases to assign categories (type labels) to entity mentions. However, the type labels so obtained from knowledge bases are often noisy (i.e., incorrect for the entity mention's local context). We define a new task, Label Noise Reduction in Entity Typing (LNR), to be the automatic identification of correct type labels (type-paths) for training examples, given the set of candidate type labels obtained by distant supervision with a given type hierarchy. The unknown type labels for individual entity mentions and the semantic similarity between entity types pose unique challenges for solving the LNR task. We propose a general framework, called PLE, to jointly embed entity mentions, text features and entity types into the same low-dimensional space where, in that space, objects whose types are semantically close have similar representations. Then we estimate the type-path for each training example in a top-down manner using the learned embeddings. We formulate a global objective for learning the embeddings from text corpora and knowledge bases, which adopts a novel margin-based loss that is robust to noisy labels and faithfully models type correlation derived from knowledge bases. Our experiments on three public typing datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of PLE, with an average of 25% improvement in accuracy compared to next best method.
A Semantic Relevance Based Neural Network for Text Summarization and   Text Simplification.Text summarization and text simplification are two major ways to simplify the text for poor readers, including children, non-native speakers, and the functionally illiterate. Text summarization is to produce a brief summary of the main ideas of the text, while text simplification aims to reduce the linguistic complexity of the text and retain the original meaning. Recently, most approaches for text summarization and text simplification are based on the sequence-to-sequence model, which achieves much success in many text generation tasks. However, although the generated simplified texts are similar to source texts literally, they have low semantic relevance. In this work, our goal is to improve semantic relevance between source texts and simplified texts for text summarization and text simplification. We introduce a Semantic Relevance Based neural model to encourage high semantic similarity between texts and summaries. In our model, the source text is represented by a gated attention encoder, while the summary representation is produced by a decoder. Besides, the similarity score between the representations is maximized during training. Our experiments show that the proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art systems on two benchmark corpus.
Deep Multitask Learning for Semantic Dependency Parsing.We present a deep neural architecture that parses sentences into three semantic dependency graph formalisms. By using efficient, nearly arc-factored inference and a bidirectional-LSTM composed with a multi-layer perceptron, our base system is able to significantly improve the state of the art for semantic dependency parsing, without using hand-engineered features or syntax. We then explore two multitask learning approaches---one that shares parameters across formalisms, and one that uses higher-order structures to predict the graphs jointly. We find that both approaches improve performance across formalisms on average, achieving a new state of the art. Our code is open-source and available at https://github.com/Noahs-ARK/NeurboParser.
Perturbed Masking: Parameter-free Probing for Analyzing and Interpreting   BERT.By introducing a small set of additional parameters, a probe learns to solve specific linguistic tasks (e.g., dependency parsing) in a supervised manner using feature representations (e.g., contextualized embeddings). The effectiveness of such probing tasks is taken as evidence that the pre-trained model encodes linguistic knowledge. However, this approach of evaluating a language model is undermined by the uncertainty of the amount of knowledge that is learned by the probe itself. Complementary to those works, we propose a parameter-free probing technique for analyzing pre-trained language models (e.g., BERT). Our method does not require direct supervision from the probing tasks, nor do we introduce additional parameters to the probing process. Our experiments on BERT show that syntactic trees recovered from BERT using our method are significantly better than linguistically-uninformed baselines. We further feed the empirically induced dependency structures into a downstream sentiment classification task and find its improvement compatible with or even superior to a human-designed dependency schema.
Generalizing Natural Language Analysis through Span-relation   Representations.Natural language processing covers a wide variety of tasks predicting syntax, semantics, and information content, and usually each type of output is generated with specially designed architectures. In this paper, we provide the simple insight that a great variety of tasks can be represented in a single unified format consisting of labeling spans and relations between spans, thus a single task-independent model can be used across different tasks. We perform extensive experiments to test this insight on 10 disparate tasks spanning dependency parsing (syntax), semantic role labeling (semantics), relation extraction (information content), aspect based sentiment analysis (sentiment), and many others, achieving performance comparable to state-of-the-art specialized models. We further demonstrate benefits of multi-task learning, and also show that the proposed method makes it easy to analyze differences and similarities in how the model handles different tasks. Finally, we convert these datasets into a unified format to build a benchmark, which provides a holistic testbed for evaluating future models for generalized natural language analysis.
Building an Ellipsis-aware Chinese Dependency Treebank for Web Text.Web 2.0 has brought with it numerous user-produced data revealing one's thoughts, experiences, and knowledge, which are a great source for many tasks, such as information extraction, and knowledge base construction. However, the colloquial nature of the texts poses new challenges for current natural language processing techniques, which are more adapt to the formal form of the language. Ellipsis is a common linguistic phenomenon that some words are left out as they are understood from the context, especially in oral utterance, hindering the improvement of dependency parsing, which is of great importance for tasks relied on the meaning of the sentence. In order to promote research in this area, we are releasing a Chinese dependency treebank of 319 weibos, containing 572 sentences with omissions restored and contexts reserved.
Unsupervised Learning of Syntactic Structure with Invertible Neural   Projections.Unsupervised learning of syntactic structure is typically performed using generative models with discrete latent variables and multinomial parameters. In most cases, these models have not leveraged continuous word representations. In this work, we propose a novel generative model that jointly learns discrete syntactic structure and continuous word representations in an unsupervised fashion by cascading an invertible neural network with a structured generative prior. We show that the invertibility condition allows for efficient exact inference and marginal likelihood computation in our model so long as the prior is well-behaved. In experiments we instantiate our approach with both Markov and tree-structured priors, evaluating on two tasks: part-of-speech (POS) induction, and unsupervised dependency parsing without gold POS annotation. On the Penn Treebank, our Markov-structured model surpasses state-of-the-art results on POS induction. Similarly, we find that our tree-structured model achieves state-of-the-art performance on unsupervised dependency parsing for the difficult training condition where neither gold POS annotation nor punctuation-based constraints are available.
Rethinking Self-Attention: Towards Interpretability in Neural Parsing.Attention mechanisms have improved the performance of NLP tasks while allowing models to remain explainable. Self-attention is currently widely used, however interpretability is difficult due to the numerous attention distributions. Recent work has shown that model representations can benefit from label-specific information, while facilitating interpretation of predictions. We introduce the Label Attention Layer: a new form of self-attention where attention heads represent labels. We test our novel layer by running constituency and dependency parsing experiments and show our new model obtains new state-of-the-art results for both tasks on both the Penn Treebank (PTB) and Chinese Treebank. Additionally, our model requires fewer self-attention layers compared to existing work. Finally, we find that the Label Attention heads learn relations between syntactic categories and show pathways to analyze errors.
Yara Parser: A Fast and Accurate Dependency Parser.Dependency parsers are among the most crucial tools in natural language processing as they have many important applications in downstream tasks such as information retrieval, machine translation and knowledge acquisition. We introduce the Yara Parser, a fast and accurate open-source dependency parser based on the arc-eager algorithm and beam search. It achieves an unlabeled accuracy of 93.32 on the standard WSJ test set which ranks it among the top dependency parsers. At its fastest, Yara can parse about 4000 sentences per second when in greedy mode (1 beam). When optimizing for accuracy (using 64 beams and Brown cluster features), Yara can parse 45 sentences per second. The parser can be trained on any syntactic dependency treebank and different options are provided in order to make it more flexible and tunable for specific tasks. It is released with the Apache version 2.0 license and can be used for both commercial and academic purposes. The parser can be found at https://github.com/yahoo/YaraParser.
BERT with History Answer Embedding for Conversational Question Answering.Conversational search is an emerging topic in the information retrieval community. One of the major challenges to multi-turn conversational search is to model the conversation history to answer the current question. Existing methods either prepend history turns to the current question or use complicated attention mechanisms to model the history. We propose a conceptually simple yet highly effective approach referred to as history answer embedding. It enables seamless integration of conversation history into a conversational question answering (ConvQA) model built on BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers). We first explain our view that ConvQA is a simplified but concrete setting of conversational search, and then we provide a general framework to solve ConvQA. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach under this framework. Finally, we analyze the impact of different numbers of history turns under different settings to provide new insights into conversation history modeling in ConvQA.
Simple and Effective Dimensionality Reduction for Word Embeddings.Word embeddings have become the basic building blocks for several natural language processing and information retrieval tasks. Pre-trained word embeddings are used in several downstream applications as well as for constructing representations for sentences, paragraphs and documents. Recently, there has been an emphasis on further improving the pre-trained word vectors through post-processing algorithms. One such area of improvement is the dimensionality reduction of the word embeddings. Reducing the size of word embeddings through dimensionality reduction can improve their utility in memory constrained devices, benefiting several real-world applications. In this work, we present a novel algorithm that effectively combines PCA based dimensionality reduction with a recently proposed post-processing algorithm, to construct word embeddings of lower dimensions. Empirical evaluations on 12 standard word similarity benchmarks show that our algorithm reduces the embedding dimensionality by 50%, while achieving similar or (more often) better performance than the higher dimension embeddings.
R$^3$: Reinforced Reader-Ranker for Open-Domain Question Answering.In recent years researchers have achieved considerable success applying neural network methods to question answering (QA). These approaches have achieved state of the art results in simplified closed-domain settings such as the SQuAD (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) dataset, which provides a pre-selected passage, from which the answer to a given question may be extracted. More recently, researchers have begun to tackle open-domain QA, in which the model is given a question and access to a large corpus (e.g., wikipedia) instead of a pre-selected passage (Chen et al., 2017a). This setting is more complex as it requires large-scale search for relevant passages by an information retrieval component, combined with a reading comprehension model that "reads" the passages to generate an answer to the question. Performance in this setting lags considerably behind closed-domain performance. In this paper, we present a novel open-domain QA system called Reinforced Ranker-Reader $(R^3)$, based on two algorithmic innovations. First, we propose a new pipeline for open-domain QA with a Ranker component, which learns to rank retrieved passages in terms of likelihood of generating the ground-truth answer to a given question. Second, we propose a novel method that jointly trains the Ranker along with an answer-generation Reader model, based on reinforcement learning. We report extensive experimental results showing that our method significantly improves on the state of the art for multiple open-domain QA datasets.
Deep Randomized Ensembles for Metric Learning.Learning embedding functions, which map semantically related inputs to nearby locations in a feature space supports a variety of classification and information retrieval tasks. In this work, we propose a novel, generalizable and fast method to define a family of embedding functions that can be used as an ensemble to give improved results. Each embedding function is learned by randomly bagging the training labels into small subsets. We show experimentally that these embedding ensembles create effective embedding functions. The ensemble output defines a metric space that improves state of the art performance for image retrieval on CUB-200-2011, Cars-196, In-Shop Clothes Retrieval and VehicleID.
Sentence Pair Scoring: Towards Unified Framework for Text Comprehension.We review the task of Sentence Pair Scoring, popular in the literature in various forms - viewed as Answer Sentence Selection, Semantic Text Scoring, Next Utterance Ranking, Recognizing Textual Entailment, Paraphrasing or e.g. a component of Memory Networks.   We argue that all such tasks are similar from the model perspective and propose new baselines by comparing the performance of common IR metrics and popular convolutional, recurrent and attention-based neural models across many Sentence Pair Scoring tasks and datasets. We discuss the problem of evaluating randomized models, propose a statistically grounded methodology, and attempt to improve comparisons by releasing new datasets that are much harder than some of the currently used well explored benchmarks. We introduce a unified open source software framework with easily pluggable models and tasks, which enables us to experiment with multi-task reusability of trained sentence model. We set a new state-of-art in performance on the Ubuntu Dialogue dataset.
Understanding tables with intermediate pre-training.Table entailment, the binary classification task of finding if a sentence is supported or refuted by the content of a table, requires parsing language and table structure as well as numerical and discrete reasoning. While there is extensive work on textual entailment, table entailment is less well studied. We adapt TAPAS (Herzig et al., 2020), a table-based BERT model, to recognize entailment. Motivated by the benefits of data augmentation, we create a balanced dataset of millions of automatically created training examples which are learned in an intermediate step prior to fine-tuning. This new data is not only useful for table entailment, but also for SQA (Iyyer et al., 2017), a sequential table QA task. To be able to use long examples as input of BERT models, we evaluate table pruning techniques as a pre-processing step to drastically improve the training and prediction efficiency at a moderate drop in accuracy. The different methods set the new state-of-the-art on the TabFact (Chen et al., 2020) and SQA datasets.
SpanBERT: Improving Pre-training by Representing and Predicting Spans.We present SpanBERT, a pre-training method that is designed to better represent and predict spans of text. Our approach extends BERT by (1) masking contiguous random spans, rather than random tokens, and (2) training the span boundary representations to predict the entire content of the masked span, without relying on the individual token representations within it. SpanBERT consistently outperforms BERT and our better-tuned baselines, with substantial gains on span selection tasks such as question answering and coreference resolution. In particular, with the same training data and model size as BERT-large, our single model obtains 94.6% and 88.7% F1 on SQuAD 1.1 and 2.0, respectively. We also achieve a new state of the art on the OntoNotes coreference resolution task (79.6\% F1), strong performance on the TACRED relation extraction benchmark, and even show gains on GLUE.
Bilateral Multi-Perspective Matching for Natural Language Sentences.Natural language sentence matching is a fundamental technology for a variety of tasks. Previous approaches either match sentences from a single direction or only apply single granular (word-by-word or sentence-by-sentence) matching. In this work, we propose a bilateral multi-perspective matching (BiMPM) model under the "matching-aggregation" framework. Given two sentences $P$ and $Q$, our model first encodes them with a BiLSTM encoder. Next, we match the two encoded sentences in two directions $P \rightarrow Q$ and $P \leftarrow Q$. In each matching direction, each time step of one sentence is matched against all time-steps of the other sentence from multiple perspectives. Then, another BiLSTM layer is utilized to aggregate the matching results into a fix-length matching vector. Finally, based on the matching vector, the decision is made through a fully connected layer. We evaluate our model on three tasks: paraphrase identification, natural language inference and answer sentence selection. Experimental results on standard benchmark datasets show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance on all tasks.
Utilizing BERT for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing   Auxiliary Sentence.Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA), which aims to identify fine-grained opinion polarity towards a specific aspect, is a challenging subtask of sentiment analysis (SA). In this paper, we construct an auxiliary sentence from the aspect and convert ABSA to a sentence-pair classification task, such as question answering (QA) and natural language inference (NLI). We fine-tune the pre-trained model from BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results on SentiHood and SemEval-2014 Task 4 datasets.
Reinforced Self-Attention Network: a Hybrid of Hard and Soft Attention   for Sequence Modeling.Many natural language processing tasks solely rely on sparse dependencies between a few tokens in a sentence. Soft attention mechanisms show promising performance in modeling local/global dependencies by soft probabilities between every two tokens, but they are not effective and efficient when applied to long sentences. By contrast, hard attention mechanisms directly select a subset of tokens but are difficult and inefficient to train due to their combinatorial nature. In this paper, we integrate both soft and hard attention into one context fusion model, "reinforced self-attention (ReSA)", for the mutual benefit of each other. In ReSA, a hard attention trims a sequence for a soft self-attention to process, while the soft attention feeds reward signals back to facilitate the training of the hard one. For this purpose, we develop a novel hard attention called "reinforced sequence sampling (RSS)", selecting tokens in parallel and trained via policy gradient. Using two RSS modules, ReSA efficiently extracts the sparse dependencies between each pair of selected tokens. We finally propose an RNN/CNN-free sentence-encoding model, "reinforced self-attention network (ReSAN)", solely based on ReSA. It achieves state-of-the-art performance on both Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) and Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge (SICK) datasets.
DiSAN: Directional Self-Attention Network for RNN/CNN-Free Language   Understanding.Recurrent neural nets (RNN) and convolutional neural nets (CNN) are widely used on NLP tasks to capture the long-term and local dependencies, respectively. Attention mechanisms have recently attracted enormous interest due to their highly parallelizable computation, significantly less training time, and flexibility in modeling dependencies. We propose a novel attention mechanism in which the attention between elements from input sequence(s) is directional and multi-dimensional (i.e., feature-wise). A light-weight neural net, "Directional Self-Attention Network (DiSAN)", is then proposed to learn sentence embedding, based solely on the proposed attention without any RNN/CNN structure. DiSAN is only composed of a directional self-attention with temporal order encoded, followed by a multi-dimensional attention that compresses the sequence into a vector representation. Despite its simple form, DiSAN outperforms complicated RNN models on both prediction quality and time efficiency. It achieves the best test accuracy among all sentence encoding methods and improves the most recent best result by 1.02% on the Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) dataset, and shows state-of-the-art test accuracy on the Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SST), Multi-Genre natural language inference (MultiNLI), Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge (SICK), Customer Review, MPQA, TREC question-type classification and Subjectivity (SUBJ) datasets.
Neural Network Models for Paraphrase Identification, Semantic Textual   Similarity, Natural Language Inference, and Question Answering.In this paper, we analyze several neural network designs (and their variations) for sentence pair modeling and compare their performance extensively across eight datasets, including paraphrase identification, semantic textual similarity, natural language inference, and question answering tasks. Although most of these models have claimed state-of-the-art performance, the original papers often reported on only one or two selected datasets. We provide a systematic study and show that (i) encoding contextual information by LSTM and inter-sentence interactions are critical, (ii) Tree-LSTM does not help as much as previously claimed but surprisingly improves performance on Twitter datasets, (iii) the Enhanced Sequential Inference Model is the best so far for larger datasets, while the Pairwise Word Interaction Model achieves the best performance when less data is available. We release our implementations as an open-source toolkit.
Character-based Neural Networks for Sentence Pair Modeling.Sentence pair modeling is critical for many NLP tasks, such as paraphrase identification, semantic textual similarity, and natural language inference. Most state-of-the-art neural models for these tasks rely on pretrained word embedding and compose sentence-level semantics in varied ways; however, few works have attempted to verify whether we really need pretrained embeddings in these tasks. In this paper, we study how effective subword-level (character and character n-gram) representations are in sentence pair modeling. Though it is well-known that subword models are effective in tasks with single sentence input, including language modeling and machine translation, they have not been systematically studied in sentence pair modeling tasks where the semantic and string similarities between texts matter. Our experiments show that subword models without any pretrained word embedding can achieve new state-of-the-art results on two social media datasets and competitive results on news data for paraphrase identification.
Joint Extraction of Entities and Relations Based on a Novel Tagging   Scheme.Joint extraction of entities and relations is an important task in information extraction. To tackle this problem, we firstly propose a novel tagging scheme that can convert the joint extraction task to a tagging problem. Then, based on our tagging scheme, we study different end-to-end models to extract entities and their relations directly, without identifying entities and relations separately. We conduct experiments on a public dataset produced by distant supervision method and the experimental results show that the tagging based methods are better than most of the existing pipelined and joint learning methods. What's more, the end-to-end model proposed in this paper, achieves the best results on the public dataset.
Simultaneously Self-Attending to All Mentions for Full-Abstract   Biological Relation Extraction.Most work in relation extraction forms a prediction by looking at a short span of text within a single sentence containing a single entity pair mention. This approach often does not consider interactions across mentions, requires redundant computation for each mention pair, and ignores relationships expressed across sentence boundaries. These problems are exacerbated by the document- (rather than sentence-) level annotation common in biological text. In response, we propose a model which simultaneously predicts relationships between all mention pairs in a document. We form pairwise predictions over entire paper abstracts using an efficient self-attention encoder. All-pairs mention scores allow us to perform multi-instance learning by aggregating over mentions to form entity pair representations. We further adapt to settings without mention-level annotation by jointly training to predict named entities and adding a corpus of weakly labeled data. In experiments on two Biocreative benchmark datasets, we achieve state of the art performance on the Biocreative V Chemical Disease Relation dataset for models without external KB resources. We also introduce a new dataset an order of magnitude larger than existing human-annotated biological information extraction datasets and more accurate than distantly supervised alternatives.
Distant Supervision Relation Extraction with Intra-Bag and Inter-Bag   Attentions.This paper presents a neural relation extraction method to deal with the noisy training data generated by distant supervision. Previous studies mainly focus on sentence-level de-noising by designing neural networks with intra-bag attentions. In this paper, both intra-bag and inter-bag attentions are considered in order to deal with the noise at sentence-level and bag-level respectively. First, relation-aware bag representations are calculated by weighting sentence embeddings using intra-bag attentions. Here, each possible relation is utilized as the query for attention calculation instead of only using the target relation in conventional methods. Furthermore, the representation of a group of bags in the training set which share the same relation label is calculated by weighting bag representations using a similarity-based inter-bag attention module. Finally, a bag group is utilized as a training sample when building our relation extractor. Experimental results on the New York Times dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed intra-bag and inter-bag attention modules. Our method also achieves better relation extraction accuracy than state-of-the-art methods on this dataset.
MRQA 2019 Shared Task: Evaluating Generalization in Reading   Comprehension.We present the results of the Machine Reading for Question Answering (MRQA) 2019 shared task on evaluating the generalization capabilities of reading comprehension systems. In this task, we adapted and unified 18 distinct question answering datasets into the same format. Among them, six datasets were made available for training, six datasets were made available for development, and the final six were hidden for final evaluation. Ten teams submitted systems, which explored various ideas including data sampling, multi-task learning, adversarial training and ensembling. The best system achieved an average F1 score of 72.5 on the 12 held-out datasets, 10.7 absolute points higher than our initial baseline based on BERT.
Incorporating BERT into Neural Machine Translation.The recently proposed BERT has shown great power on a variety of natural language understanding tasks, such as text classification, reading comprehension, etc. However, how to effectively apply BERT to neural machine translation (NMT) lacks enough exploration. While BERT is more commonly used as fine-tuning instead of contextual embedding for downstream language understanding tasks, in NMT, our preliminary exploration of using BERT as contextual embedding is better than using for fine-tuning. This motivates us to think how to better leverage BERT for NMT along this direction. We propose a new algorithm named BERT-fused model, in which we first use BERT to extract representations for an input sequence, and then the representations are fused with each layer of the encoder and decoder of the NMT model through attention mechanisms. We conduct experiments on supervised (including sentence-level and document-level translations), semi-supervised and unsupervised machine translation, and achieve state-of-the-art results on seven benchmark datasets. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/bert-nmt/bert-nmt}.
FlowQA: Grasping Flow in History for Conversational Machine   Comprehension.Conversational machine comprehension requires the understanding of the conversation history, such as previous question/answer pairs, the document context, and the current question. To enable traditional, single-turn models to encode the history comprehensively, we introduce Flow, a mechanism that can incorporate intermediate representations generated during the process of answering previous questions, through an alternating parallel processing structure. Compared to approaches that concatenate previous questions/answers as input, Flow integrates the latent semantics of the conversation history more deeply. Our model, FlowQA, shows superior performance on two recently proposed conversational challenges (+7.2% F1 on CoQA and +4.0% on QuAC). The effectiveness of Flow also shows in other tasks. By reducing sequential instruction understanding to conversational machine comprehension, FlowQA outperforms the best models on all three domains in SCONE, with +1.8% to +4.4% improvement in accuracy.
TriviaQA: A Large Scale Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for   Reading Comprehension.We present TriviaQA, a challenging reading comprehension dataset containing over 650K question-answer-evidence triples. TriviaQA includes 95K question-answer pairs authored by trivia enthusiasts and independently gathered evidence documents, six per question on average, that provide high quality distant supervision for answering the questions. We show that, in comparison to other recently introduced large-scale datasets, TriviaQA (1) has relatively complex, compositional questions, (2) has considerable syntactic and lexical variability between questions and corresponding answer-evidence sentences, and (3) requires more cross sentence reasoning to find answers. We also present two baseline algorithms: a feature-based classifier and a state-of-the-art neural network, that performs well on SQuAD reading comprehension. Neither approach comes close to human performance (23% and 40% vs. 80%), suggesting that TriviaQA is a challenging testbed that is worth significant future study. Data and code available at -- http://nlp.cs.washington.edu/triviaqa/
Semantics-aware BERT for Language Understanding.The latest work on language representations carefully integrates contextualized features into language model training, which enables a series of success especially in various machine reading comprehension and natural language inference tasks. However, the existing language representation models including ELMo, GPT and BERT only exploit plain context-sensitive features such as character or word embeddings. They rarely consider incorporating structured semantic information which can provide rich semantics for language representation. To promote natural language understanding, we propose to incorporate explicit contextual semantics from pre-trained semantic role labeling, and introduce an improved language representation model, Semantics-aware BERT (SemBERT), which is capable of explicitly absorbing contextual semantics over a BERT backbone. SemBERT keeps the convenient usability of its BERT precursor in a light fine-tuning way without substantial task-specific modifications. Compared with BERT, semantics-aware BERT is as simple in concept but more powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art or substantially improves results on ten reading comprehension and language inference tasks.
Attention-over-Attention Neural Networks for Reading Comprehension.Cloze-style queries are representative problems in reading comprehension. Over the past few months, we have seen much progress that utilizing neural network approach to solve Cloze-style questions. In this paper, we present a novel model called attention-over-attention reader for the Cloze-style reading comprehension task. Our model aims to place another attention mechanism over the document-level attention, and induces "attended attention" for final predictions. Unlike the previous works, our neural network model requires less pre-defined hyper-parameters and uses an elegant architecture for modeling. Experimental results show that the proposed attention-over-attention model significantly outperforms various state-of-the-art systems by a large margin in public datasets, such as CNN and Children's Book Test datasets.
MS MARCO: A Human Generated MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset.We introduce a large scale MAchine Reading COmprehension dataset, which we name MS MARCO. The dataset comprises of 1,010,916 anonymized questions---sampled from Bing's search query logs---each with a human generated answer and 182,669 completely human rewritten generated answers. In addition, the dataset contains 8,841,823 passages---extracted from 3,563,535 web documents retrieved by Bing---that provide the information necessary for curating the natural language answers. A question in the MS MARCO dataset may have multiple answers or no answers at all. Using this dataset, we propose three different tasks with varying levels of difficulty: (i) predict if a question is answerable given a set of context passages, and extract and synthesize the answer as a human would (ii) generate a well-formed answer (if possible) based on the context passages that can be understood with the question and passage context, and finally (iii) rank a set of retrieved passages given a question. The size of the dataset and the fact that the questions are derived from real user search queries distinguishes MS MARCO from other well-known publicly available datasets for machine reading comprehension and question-answering. We believe that the scale and the real-world nature of this dataset makes it attractive for benchmarking machine reading comprehension and question-answering models.
Dataset for Automatic Summarization of Russian News.Automatic text summarization has been studied in a variety of domains and languages. However, this does not hold for the Russian language. To overcome this issue, we present Gazeta, the first dataset for summarization of Russian news. We describe the properties of this dataset and benchmark several extractive and abstractive models. We demonstrate that the dataset is a valid task for methods of text summarization for Russian. Additionally, we prove the pretrained mBART model to be useful for Russian text summarization.
Importance of Copying Mechanism for News Headline Generation.News headline generation is an essential problem of text summarization because it is constrained, well-defined, and is still hard to solve. Models with a limited vocabulary can not solve it well, as new named entities can appear regularly in the news and these entities often should be in the headline. News articles in morphologically rich languages such as Russian require model modifications due to a large number of possible word forms. This study aims to validate that models with a possibility of copying words from the original article performs better than models without such an option. The proposed model achieves a mean ROUGE score of 23 on the provided test dataset, which is 8 points greater than the result of a similar model without a copying mechanism. Moreover, the resulting model performs better than any known model on the new dataset of Russian news.
Deep Recurrent Generative Decoder for Abstractive Text Summarization.We propose a new framework for abstractive text summarization based on a sequence-to-sequence oriented encoder-decoder model equipped with a deep recurrent generative decoder (DRGN).   Latent structure information implied in the target summaries is learned based on a recurrent latent random model for improving the summarization quality.   Neural variational inference is employed to address the intractable posterior inference for the recurrent latent variables.   Abstractive summaries are generated based on both the generative latent variables and the discriminative deterministic states.   Extensive experiments on some benchmark datasets in different languages show that DRGN achieves improvements over the state-of-the-art methods.
Graph Optimal Transport for Cross-Domain Alignment.Cross-domain alignment between two sets of entities (e.g., objects in an image, words in a sentence) is fundamental to both computer vision and natural language processing. Existing methods mainly focus on designing advanced attention mechanisms to simulate soft alignment, with no training signals to explicitly encourage alignment. The learned attention matrices are also dense and lacks interpretability. We propose Graph Optimal Transport (GOT), a principled framework that germinates from recent advances in Optimal Transport (OT). In GOT, cross-domain alignment is formulated as a graph matching problem, by representing entities into a dynamically-constructed graph. Two types of OT distances are considered: (i) Wasserstein distance (WD) for node (entity) matching; and (ii) Gromov-Wasserstein distance (GWD) for edge (structure) matching. Both WD and GWD can be incorporated into existing neural network models, effectively acting as a drop-in regularizer. The inferred transport plan also yields sparse and self-normalized alignment, enhancing the interpretability of the learned model. Experiments show consistent outperformance of GOT over baselines across a wide range of tasks, including image-text retrieval, visual question answering, image captioning, machine translation, and text summarization.
Unsupervised Sentence Compression using Denoising Auto-Encoders.In sentence compression, the task of shortening sentences while retaining the original meaning, models tend to be trained on large corpora containing pairs of verbose and compressed sentences. To remove the need for paired corpora, we emulate a summarization task and add noise to extend sentences and train a denoising auto-encoder to recover the original, constructing an end-to-end training regime without the need for any examples of compressed sentences. We conduct a human evaluation of our model on a standard text summarization dataset and show that it performs comparably to a supervised baseline based on grammatical correctness and retention of meaning. Despite being exposed to no target data, our unsupervised models learn to generate imperfect but reasonably readable sentence summaries. Although we underperform supervised models based on ROUGE scores, our models are competitive with a supervised baseline based on human evaluation for grammatical correctness and retention of meaning.
A Semantic Relevance Based Neural Network for Text Summarization and   Text Simplification.Text summarization and text simplification are two major ways to simplify the text for poor readers, including children, non-native speakers, and the functionally illiterate. Text summarization is to produce a brief summary of the main ideas of the text, while text simplification aims to reduce the linguistic complexity of the text and retain the original meaning. Recently, most approaches for text summarization and text simplification are based on the sequence-to-sequence model, which achieves much success in many text generation tasks. However, although the generated simplified texts are similar to source texts literally, they have low semantic relevance. In this work, our goal is to improve semantic relevance between source texts and simplified texts for text summarization and text simplification. We introduce a Semantic Relevance Based neural model to encourage high semantic similarity between texts and summaries. In our model, the source text is represented by a gated attention encoder, while the summary representation is produced by a decoder. Besides, the similarity score between the representations is maximized during training. Our experiments show that the proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art systems on two benchmark corpus.
Improving Semantic Relevance for Sequence-to-Sequence Learning of   Chinese Social Media Text Summarization.Current Chinese social media text summarization models are based on an encoder-decoder framework. Although its generated summaries are similar to source texts literally, they have low semantic relevance. In this work, our goal is to improve semantic relevance between source texts and summaries for Chinese social media summarization. We introduce a Semantic Relevance Based neural model to encourage high semantic similarity between texts and summaries. In our model, the source text is represented by a gated attention encoder, while the summary representation is produced by a decoder. Besides, the similarity score between the representations is maximized during training. Our experiments show that the proposed model outperforms baseline systems on a social media corpus.
Towards Deep Learning in Hindi NER: An approach to tackle the Labelled   Data Scarcity.In this paper we describe an end to end Neural Model for Named Entity Recognition NER) which is based on Bi-Directional RNN-LSTM. Almost all NER systems for Hindi use Language Specific features and handcrafted rules with gazetteers. Our model is language independent and uses no domain specific features or any handcrafted rules. Our models rely on semantic information in the form of word vectors which are learnt by an unsupervised learning algorithm on an unannotated corpus. Our model attained state of the art performance in both English and Hindi without the use of any morphological analysis or without using gazetteers of any sort.
fastHan: A BERT-based Joint Many-Task Toolkit for Chinese NLP.We present fastHan, an open-source toolkit for four basic tasks in Chinese natural language processing: Chinese word segmentation, Part-of-Speech tagging, named entity recognition, and dependency parsing. The kernel of fastHan is a joint many-task model based on a pruned BERT, which uses the first 8 layers in BERT. We also provide a 4-layer base version of model compressed from the 8-layer model. The joint-model is trained and evaluated in 13 corpora of four tasks, yielding near state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in the dependency parsing task and SOTA performance in the other three tasks. In addition to its small size and excellent performance, fastHan is also very user-friendly. Implemented as a python package, fastHan allows users to easily download and use it. Users can get what they want with one line of code, even if they have little knowledge of deep learning. The project is released on Github.
Improving Clinical Document Understanding on COVID-19 Research with   Spark NLP.Following the global COVID-19 pandemic, the number of scientific papers studying the virus has grown massively, leading to increased interest in automated literate review. We present a clinical text mining system that improves on previous efforts in three ways. First, it can recognize over 100 different entity types including social determinants of health, anatomy, risk factors, and adverse events in addition to other commonly used clinical and biomedical entities. Second, the text processing pipeline includes assertion status detection, to distinguish between clinical facts that are present, absent, conditional, or about someone other than the patient. Third, the deep learning models used are more accurate than previously available, leveraging an integrated pipeline of state-of-the-art pretrained named entity recognition models, and improving on the previous best performing benchmarks for assertion status detection. We illustrate extracting trends and insights, e.g. most frequent disorders and symptoms, and most common vital signs and EKG findings, from the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset (CORD-19). The system is built using the Spark NLP library which natively supports scaling to use distributed clusters, leveraging GPUs, configurable and reusable NLP pipelines, healthcare specific embeddings, and the ability to train models to support new entity types or human languages with no code changes.
Portuguese Named Entity Recognition using BERT-CRF.Recent advances in language representation using neural networks have made it viable to transfer the learned internal states of a trained model to downstream natural language processing tasks, such as named entity recognition (NER) and question answering. It has been shown that the leverage of pre-trained language models improves the overall performance on many tasks and is highly beneficial when labeled data is scarce. In this work, we train Portuguese BERT models and employ a BERT-CRF architecture to the NER task on the Portuguese language, combining the transfer capabilities of BERT with the structured predictions of CRF. We explore feature-based and fine-tuning training strategies for the BERT model. Our fine-tuning approach obtains new state-of-the-art results on the HAREM I dataset, improving the F1-score by 1 point on the selective scenario (5 NE classes) and by 4 points on the total scenario (10 NE classes).
FLAT: Chinese NER Using Flat-Lattice Transformer.Recently, the character-word lattice structure has been proved to be effective for Chinese named entity recognition (NER) by incorporating the word information. However, since the lattice structure is complex and dynamic, most existing lattice-based models are hard to fully utilize the parallel computation of GPUs and usually have a low inference-speed. In this paper, we propose FLAT: Flat-LAttice Transformer for Chinese NER, which converts the lattice structure into a flat structure consisting of spans. Each span corresponds to a character or latent word and its position in the original lattice. With the power of Transformer and well-designed position encoding, FLAT can fully leverage the lattice information and has an excellent parallelization ability. Experiments on four datasets show FLAT outperforms other lexicon-based models in performance and efficiency.
Multilingual Named Entity Recognition Using Pretrained Embeddings,   Attention Mechanism and NCRF.In this paper we tackle multilingual named entity recognition task. We use the BERT Language Model as embeddings with bidirectional recurrent network, attention, and NCRF on the top. We apply multilingual BERT only as embedder without any fine-tuning. We test out model on the dataset of the BSNLP shared task, which consists of texts in Bulgarian, Czech, Polish and Russian languages.
VnCoreNLP: A Vietnamese Natural Language Processing Toolkit.We present an easy-to-use and fast toolkit, namely VnCoreNLP---a Java NLP annotation pipeline for Vietnamese. Our VnCoreNLP supports key natural language processing (NLP) tasks including word segmentation, part-of-speech (POS) tagging, named entity recognition (NER) and dependency parsing, and obtains state-of-the-art (SOTA) results for these tasks. We release VnCoreNLP to provide rich linguistic annotations to facilitate research work on Vietnamese NLP. Our VnCoreNLP is open-source and available at: https://github.com/vncorenlp/VnCoreNLP
Adversarial Attack and Defense on Graph Data: A Survey.Deep neural networks (DNNs) have been widely applied to various applications including image classification, text generation, audio recognition, and graph data analysis. However, recent studies have shown that DNNs are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Though there are several works studying adversarial attack and defense strategies on domains such as images and natural language processing, it is still difficult to directly transfer the learned knowledge to graph structure data due to its representation challenges. Given the importance of graph analysis, an increasing number of works start to analyze the robustness of machine learning models on graph data. Nevertheless, current studies considering adversarial behaviors on graph data usually focus on specific types of attacks with certain assumptions. In addition, each work proposes its own mathematical formulation which makes the comparison among different methods difficult. Therefore, in this paper, we aim to survey existing adversarial learning strategies on graph data and first provide a unified formulation for adversarial learning on graph data which covers most adversarial learning studies on graph. Moreover, we also compare different attacks and defenses on graph data and discuss their corresponding contributions and limitations. In this work, we systemically organize the considered works based on the features of each topic. This survey not only serves as a reference for the research community, but also brings a clear image researchers outside this research domain. Besides, we also create an online resource and keep updating the relevant papers during the last two years. More details of the comparisons of various studies based on this survey are open-sourced at https://github.com/YingtongDou/graph-adversarial-learning-literature.
Multiresolution Recurrent Neural Networks: An Application to Dialogue   Response Generation.We introduce the multiresolution recurrent neural network, which extends the sequence-to-sequence framework to model natural language generation as two parallel discrete stochastic processes: a sequence of high-level coarse tokens, and a sequence of natural language tokens. There are many ways to estimate or learn the high-level coarse tokens, but we argue that a simple extraction procedure is sufficient to capture a wealth of high-level discourse semantics. Such procedure allows training the multiresolution recurrent neural network by maximizing the exact joint log-likelihood over both sequences. In contrast to the standard log- likelihood objective w.r.t. natural language tokens (word perplexity), optimizing the joint log-likelihood biases the model towards modeling high-level abstractions. We apply the proposed model to the task of dialogue response generation in two challenging domains: the Ubuntu technical support domain, and Twitter conversations. On Ubuntu, the model outperforms competing approaches by a substantial margin, achieving state-of-the-art results according to both automatic evaluation metrics and a human evaluation study. On Twitter, the model appears to generate more relevant and on-topic responses according to automatic evaluation metrics. Finally, our experiments demonstrate that the proposed model is more adept at overcoming the sparsity of natural language and is better able to capture long-term structure.
Text Generation from Knowledge Graphs with Graph Transformers.Generating texts which express complex ideas spanning multiple sentences requires a structured representation of their content (document plan), but these representations are prohibitively expensive to manually produce. In this work, we address the problem of generating coherent multi-sentence texts from the output of an information extraction system, and in particular a knowledge graph. Graphical knowledge representations are ubiquitous in computing, but pose a significant challenge for text generation techniques due to their non-hierarchical nature, collapsing of long-distance dependencies, and structural variety. We introduce a novel graph transforming encoder which can leverage the relational structure of such knowledge graphs without imposing linearization or hierarchical constraints. Incorporated into an encoder-decoder setup, we provide an end-to-end trainable system for graph-to-text generation that we apply to the domain of scientific text. Automatic and human evaluations show that our technique produces more informative texts which exhibit better document structure than competitive encoder-decoder methods.
BLEURT: Learning Robust Metrics for Text Generation.Text generation has made significant advances in the last few years. Yet, evaluation metrics have lagged behind, as the most popular choices (e.g., BLEU and ROUGE) may correlate poorly with human judgments. We propose BLEURT, a learned evaluation metric based on BERT that can model human judgments with a few thousand possibly biased training examples. A key aspect of our approach is a novel pre-training scheme that uses millions of synthetic examples to help the model generalize. BLEURT provides state-of-the-art results on the last three years of the WMT Metrics shared task and the WebNLG Competition dataset. In contrast to a vanilla BERT-based approach, it yields superior results even when the training data is scarce and out-of-distribution.
Learning Discourse-level Diversity for Neural Dialog Models using   Conditional Variational Autoencoders.While recent neural encoder-decoder models have shown great promise in modeling open-domain conversations, they often generate dull and generic responses. Unlike past work that has focused on diversifying the output of the decoder at word-level to alleviate this problem, we present a novel framework based on conditional variational autoencoders that captures the discourse-level diversity in the encoder. Our model uses latent variables to learn a distribution over potential conversational intents and generates diverse responses using only greedy decoders. We have further developed a novel variant that is integrated with linguistic prior knowledge for better performance. Finally, the training procedure is improved by introducing a bag-of-word loss. Our proposed models have been validated to generate significantly more diverse responses than baseline approaches and exhibit competence in discourse-level decision-making.
Language Generation with Recurrent Generative Adversarial Networks   without Pre-training.Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have shown great promise recently in image generation. Training GANs for language generation has proven to be more difficult, because of the non-differentiable nature of generating text with recurrent neural networks. Consequently, past work has either resorted to pre-training with maximum-likelihood or used convolutional networks for generation. In this work, we show that recurrent neural networks can be trained to generate text with GANs from scratch using curriculum learning, by slowly teaching the model to generate sequences of increasing and variable length. We empirically show that our approach vastly improves the quality of generated sequences compared to a convolutional baseline.
PodSumm -- Podcast Audio Summarization.The diverse nature, scale, and specificity of podcasts present a unique challenge to content discovery systems. Listeners often rely on text descriptions of episodes provided by the podcast creators to discover new content. Some factors like the presentation style of the narrator and production quality are significant indicators of subjective user preference but are difficult to quantify and not reflected in the text descriptions provided by the podcast creators. We propose the automated creation of podcast audio summaries to aid in content discovery and help listeners to quickly preview podcast content before investing time in listening to an entire episode. In this paper, we present a method to automatically construct a podcast summary via guidance from the text-domain. Our method performs two key steps, namely, audio to text transcription and text summary generation. Motivated by a lack of datasets for this task, we curate an internal dataset, find an effective scheme for data augmentation, and design a protocol to gather summaries from annotators. We fine-tune a PreSumm[10] model with our augmented dataset and perform an ablation study. Our method achieves ROUGE-F(1/2/L) scores of 0.63/0.53/0.63 on our dataset. We hope these results may inspire future research in this direction.
Fixing the train-test resolution discrepancy: FixEfficientNet.This paper provides an extensive analysis of the performance of the EfficientNet image classifiers with several recent training procedures, in particular one that corrects the discrepancy between train and test images. The resulting network, called FixEfficientNet, significantly outperforms the initial architecture with the same number of parameters.   For instance, our FixEfficientNet-B0 trained without additional training data achieves 79.3% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet with 5.3M parameters. This is a +0.5% absolute improvement over the Noisy student EfficientNet-B0 trained with 300M unlabeled images. An EfficientNet-L2 pre-trained with weak supervision on 300M unlabeled images and further optimized with FixRes achieves 88.5% top-1 accuracy (top-5: 98.7%), which establishes the new state of the art for ImageNet with a single crop.   These improvements are thoroughly evaluated with cleaner protocols than the one usually employed for Imagenet, and particular we show that our improvement remains in the experimental setting of ImageNet-v2, that is less prone to overfitting, and with ImageNet Real Labels. In both cases we also establish the new state of the art.
Espresso: A Fast End-to-end Neural Speech Recognition Toolkit.We present Espresso, an open-source, modular, extensible end-to-end neural automatic speech recognition (ASR) toolkit based on the deep learning library PyTorch and the popular neural machine translation toolkit fairseq. Espresso supports distributed training across GPUs and computing nodes, and features various decoding approaches commonly employed in ASR, including look-ahead word-based language model fusion, for which a fast, parallelized decoder is implemented. Espresso achieves state-of-the-art ASR performance on the WSJ, LibriSpeech, and Switchboard data sets among other end-to-end systems without data augmentation, and is 4--11x faster for decoding than similar systems (e.g. ESPnet).
Kapre: On-GPU Audio Preprocessing Layers for a Quick Implementation of   Deep Neural Network Models with Keras.We introduce Kapre, Keras layers for audio and music signal preprocessing. Music research using deep neural networks requires a heavy and tedious preprocessing stage, for which audio processing parameters are often ignored in parameter optimisation. To solve this problem, Kapre implements time-frequency conversions, normalisation, and data augmentation as Keras layers. We report simple benchmark results, showing real-time on-GPU preprocessing adds a reasonable amount of computation.
iNLTK: Natural Language Toolkit for Indic Languages.We present iNLTK, an open-source NLP library consisting of pre-trained language models and out-of-the-box support for Data Augmentation, Textual Similarity, Sentence Embeddings, Word Embeddings, Tokenization and Text Generation in 13 Indic Languages. By using pre-trained models from iNLTK for text classification on publicly available datasets, we significantly outperform previously reported results. On these datasets, we also show that by using pre-trained models and data augmentation from iNLTK, we can achieve more than 95% of the previous best performance by using less than 10% of the training data. iNLTK is already being widely used by the community and has 40,000+ downloads, 600+ stars and 100+ forks on GitHub. The library is available at https://github.com/goru001/inltk.
Deep learning for time series classification.Time series analysis is a field of data science which is interested in analyzing sequences of numerical values ordered in time. Time series are particularly interesting because they allow us to visualize and understand the evolution of a process over time. Their analysis can reveal trends, relationships and similarities across the data. There exists numerous fields containing data in the form of time series: health care (electrocardiogram, blood sugar, etc.), activity recognition, remote sensing, finance (stock market price), industry (sensors), etc. Time series classification consists of constructing algorithms dedicated to automatically label time series data. The sequential aspect of time series data requires the development of algorithms that are able to harness this temporal property, thus making the existing off-the-shelf machine learning models for traditional tabular data suboptimal for solving the underlying task. In this context, deep learning has emerged in recent years as one of the most effective methods for tackling the supervised classification task, particularly in the field of computer vision. The main objective of this thesis was to study and develop deep neural networks specifically constructed for the classification of time series data. We thus carried out the first large scale experimental study allowing us to compare the existing deep methods and to position them compared other non-deep learning based state-of-the-art methods. Subsequently, we made numerous contributions in this area, notably in the context of transfer learning, data augmentation, ensembling and adversarial attacks. Finally, we have also proposed a novel architecture, based on the famous Inception network (Google), which ranks among the most efficient to date.
SKEP: Sentiment Knowledge Enhanced Pre-training for Sentiment Analysis.Recently, sentiment analysis has seen remarkable advance with the help of pre-training approaches. However, sentiment knowledge, such as sentiment words and aspect-sentiment pairs, is ignored in the process of pre-training, despite the fact that they are widely used in traditional sentiment analysis approaches. In this paper, we introduce Sentiment Knowledge Enhanced Pre-training (SKEP) in order to learn a unified sentiment representation for multiple sentiment analysis tasks. With the help of automatically-mined knowledge, SKEP conducts sentiment masking and constructs three sentiment knowledge prediction objectives, so as to embed sentiment information at the word, polarity and aspect level into pre-trained sentiment representation. In particular, the prediction of aspect-sentiment pairs is converted into multi-label classification, aiming to capture the dependency between words in a pair. Experiments on three kinds of sentiment tasks show that SKEP significantly outperforms strong pre-training baseline, and achieves new state-of-the-art results on most of the test datasets. We release our code at https://github.com/baidu/Senta.
ERNIE: Enhanced Language Representation with Informative Entities.Neural language representation models such as BERT pre-trained on large-scale corpora can well capture rich semantic patterns from plain text, and be fine-tuned to consistently improve the performance of various NLP tasks. However, the existing pre-trained language models rarely consider incorporating knowledge graphs (KGs), which can provide rich structured knowledge facts for better language understanding. We argue that informative entities in KGs can enhance language representation with external knowledge. In this paper, we utilize both large-scale textual corpora and KGs to train an enhanced language representation model (ERNIE), which can take full advantage of lexical, syntactic, and knowledge information simultaneously. The experimental results have demonstrated that ERNIE achieves significant improvements on various knowledge-driven tasks, and meanwhile is comparable with the state-of-the-art model BERT on other common NLP tasks. The source code of this paper can be obtained from https://github.com/thunlp/ERNIE.
Graph Convolutional Networks for Text Classification.Text classification is an important and classical problem in natural language processing. There have been a number of studies that applied convolutional neural networks (convolution on regular grid, e.g., sequence) to classification. However, only a limited number of studies have explored the more flexible graph convolutional neural networks (convolution on non-grid, e.g., arbitrary graph) for the task. In this work, we propose to use graph convolutional networks for text classification. We build a single text graph for a corpus based on word co-occurrence and document word relations, then learn a Text Graph Convolutional Network (Text GCN) for the corpus. Our Text GCN is initialized with one-hot representation for word and document, it then jointly learns the embeddings for both words and documents, as supervised by the known class labels for documents. Our experimental results on multiple benchmark datasets demonstrate that a vanilla Text GCN without any external word embeddings or knowledge outperforms state-of-the-art methods for text classification. On the other hand, Text GCN also learns predictive word and document embeddings. In addition, experimental results show that the improvement of Text GCN over state-of-the-art comparison methods become more prominent as we lower the percentage of training data, suggesting the robustness of Text GCN to less training data in text classification.
Text Understanding from Scratch.This article demontrates that we can apply deep learning to text understanding from character-level inputs all the way up to abstract text concepts, using temporal convolutional networks (ConvNets). We apply ConvNets to various large-scale datasets, including ontology classification, sentiment analysis, and text categorization. We show that temporal ConvNets can achieve astonishing performance without the knowledge of words, phrases, sentences and any other syntactic or semantic structures with regards to a human language. Evidence shows that our models can work for both English and Chinese.
Topic Discovery in Massive Text Corpora Based on Min-Hashing.The task of discovering topics in text corpora has been dominated by Latent Dirichlet Allocation and other Topic Models for over a decade. In order to apply these approaches to massive text corpora, the vocabulary needs to be reduced considerably and large computer clusters and/or GPUs are typically required. Moreover, the number of topics must be provided beforehand but this depends on the corpus characteristics and it is often difficult to estimate, especially for massive text corpora. Unfortunately, both topic quality and time complexity are sensitive to this choice. This paper describes an alternative approach to discover topics based on Min-Hashing, which can handle massive text corpora and large vocabularies using modest computer hardware and does not require to fix the number of topics in advance. The basic idea is to generate multiple random partitions of the corpus vocabulary to find sets of highly co-occurring words, which are then clustered to produce the final topics. In contrast to probabilistic topic models where topics are distributions over the complete vocabulary, the topics discovered by the proposed approach are sets of highly co-occurring words. Interestingly, these topics underlie various thematics with different levels of granularity. An extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluation using the 20 Newsgroups (18K), Reuters (800K), Spanish Wikipedia (1M), and English Wikipedia (5M) corpora shows that the proposed approach is able to consistently discover meaningful and coherent topics. Remarkably, the time complexity of the proposed approach is linear with respect to corpus and vocabulary size; a non-parallel implementation was able to discover topics from the entire English edition of Wikipedia with over 5 million documents and 1 million words in less than 7 hours.
Stability of Topic Modeling via Matrix Factorization.Topic models can provide us with an insight into the underlying latent structure of a large corpus of documents. A range of methods have been proposed in the literature, including probabilistic topic models and techniques based on matrix factorization. However, in both cases, standard implementations rely on stochastic elements in their initialization phase, which can potentially lead to different results being generated on the same corpus when using the same parameter values. This corresponds to the concept of "instability" which has previously been studied in the context of $k$-means clustering. In many applications of topic modeling, this problem of instability is not considered and topic models are treated as being definitive, even though the results may change considerably if the initialization process is altered. In this paper we demonstrate the inherent instability of popular topic modeling approaches, using a number of new measures to assess stability. To address this issue in the context of matrix factorization for topic modeling, we propose the use of ensemble learning strategies. Based on experiments performed on annotated text corpora, we show that a K-Fold ensemble strategy, combining both ensembles and structured initialization, can significantly reduce instability, while simultaneously yielding more accurate topic models.
Source-LDA: Enhancing probabilistic topic models using prior knowledge   sources.A popular approach to topic modeling involves extracting co-occurring n-grams of a corpus into semantic themes. The set of n-grams in a theme represents an underlying topic, but most topic modeling approaches are not able to label these sets of words with a single n-gram. Such labels are useful for topic identification in summarization systems. This paper introduces a novel approach to labeling a group of n-grams comprising an individual topic. The approach taken is to complement the existing topic distributions over words with a known distribution based on a predefined set of topics. This is done by integrating existing labeled knowledge sources representing known potential topics into the probabilistic topic model. These knowledge sources are translated into a distribution and used to set the hyperparameters of the Dirichlet generated distribution over words. In the inference these modified distributions guide the convergence of the latent topics to conform with the complementary distributions. This approach ensures that the topic inference process is consistent with existing knowledge. The label assignment from the complementary knowledge sources are then transferred to the latent topics of the corpus. The results show both accurate label assignment to topics as well as improved topic generation than those obtained using various labeling approaches based off Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA).
Guaranteed inference in topic models.One of the core problems in statistical models is the estimation of a posterior distribution. For topic models, the problem of posterior inference for individual texts is particularly important, especially when dealing with data streams, but is often intractable in the worst case. As a consequence, existing methods for posterior inference are approximate and do not have any guarantee on neither quality nor convergence rate. In this paper, we introduce a provably fast algorithm, namely Online Maximum a Posteriori Estimation (OPE), for posterior inference in topic models. OPE has more attractive properties than existing inference approaches, including theoretical guarantees on quality and fast rate of convergence to a local maximal/stationary point of the inference problem. The discussions about OPE are very general and hence can be easily employed in a wide range of contexts. Finally, we employ OPE to design three methods for learning Latent Dirichlet Allocation from text streams or large corpora. Extensive experiments demonstrate some superior behaviors of OPE and of our new learning methods.
Inference in topic models: sparsity and trade-off.Topic models are popular for modeling discrete data (e.g., texts, images, videos, links), and provide an efficient way to discover hidden structures/semantics in massive data. One of the core problems in this field is the posterior inference for individual data instances. This problem is particularly important in streaming environments, but is often intractable. In this paper, we investigate the use of the Frank-Wolfe algorithm (FW) for recovering sparse solutions to posterior inference. From detailed elucidation of both theoretical and practical aspects, FW exhibits many interesting properties which are beneficial to topic modeling. We then employ FW to design fast methods, including ML-FW, for learning latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) at large scales. Extensive experiments show that to reach the same predictiveness level, ML-FW can perform tens to thousand times faster than existing state-of-the-art methods for learning LDA from massive/streaming data.
Discriminative Topic Mining via Category-Name Guided Text Embedding.Mining a set of meaningful and distinctive topics automatically from massive text corpora has broad applications. Existing topic models, however, typically work in a purely unsupervised way, which often generate topics that do not fit users' particular needs and yield suboptimal performance on downstream tasks. We propose a new task, discriminative topic mining, which leverages a set of user-provided category names to mine discriminative topics from text corpora. This new task not only helps a user understand clearly and distinctively the topics he/she is most interested in, but also benefits directly keyword-driven classification tasks. We develop CatE, a novel category-name guided text embedding method for discriminative topic mining, which effectively leverages minimal user guidance to learn a discriminative embedding space and discover category representative terms in an iterative manner. We conduct a comprehensive set of experiments to show that CatE mines high-quality set of topics guided by category names only, and benefits a variety of downstream applications including weakly-supervised classification and lexical entailment direction identification.
Topic Modeling with Wasserstein Autoencoders.We propose a novel neural topic model in the Wasserstein autoencoders (WAE) framework. Unlike existing variational autoencoder based models, we directly enforce Dirichlet prior on the latent document-topic vectors. We exploit the structure of the latent space and apply a suitable kernel in minimizing the Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) to perform distribution matching. We discover that MMD performs much better than the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) in matching high dimensional Dirichlet distribution. We further discover that incorporating randomness in the encoder output during training leads to significantly more coherent topics. To measure the diversity of the produced topics, we propose a simple topic uniqueness metric. Together with the widely used coherence measure NPMI, we offer a more wholistic evaluation of topic quality. Experiments on several real datasets show that our model produces significantly better topics than existing topic models.
Dirichlet Variational Autoencoder.This paper proposes Dirichlet Variational Autoencoder (DirVAE) using a Dirichlet prior for a continuous latent variable that exhibits the characteristic of the categorical probabilities. To infer the parameters of DirVAE, we utilize the stochastic gradient method by approximating the Gamma distribution, which is a component of the Dirichlet distribution, with the inverse Gamma CDF approximation. Additionally, we reshape the component collapsing issue by investigating two problem sources, which are decoder weight collapsing and latent value collapsing, and we show that DirVAE has no component collapsing; while Gaussian VAE exhibits the decoder weight collapsing and Stick-Breaking VAE shows the latent value collapsing. The experimental results show that 1) DirVAE models the latent representation result with the best log-likelihood compared to the baselines; and 2) DirVAE produces more interpretable latent values with no collapsing issues which the baseline models suffer from. Also, we show that the learned latent representation from the DirVAE achieves the best classification accuracy in the semi-supervised and the supervised classification tasks on MNIST, OMNIGLOT, and SVHN compared to the baseline VAEs. Finally, we demonstrated that the DirVAE augmented topic models show better performances in most cases.
Learned in Translation: Contextualized Word Vectors.Computer vision has benefited from initializing multiple deep layers with weights pretrained on large supervised training sets like ImageNet. Natural language processing (NLP) typically sees initialization of only the lowest layer of deep models with pretrained word vectors. In this paper, we use a deep LSTM encoder from an attentional sequence-to-sequence model trained for machine translation (MT) to contextualize word vectors. We show that adding these context vectors (CoVe) improves performance over using only unsupervised word and character vectors on a wide variety of common NLP tasks: sentiment analysis (SST, IMDb), question classification (TREC), entailment (SNLI), and question answering (SQuAD). For fine-grained sentiment analysis and entailment, CoVe improves performance of our baseline models to the state of the art.
An Improvement of Data Classification Using Random Multimodel Deep   Learning (RMDL).The exponential growth in the number of complex datasets every year requires more enhancement in machine learning methods to provide robust and accurate data classification. Lately, deep learning approaches have achieved surpassing results in comparison to previous machine learning algorithms. However, finding the suitable structure for these models has been a challenge for researchers. This paper introduces Random Multimodel Deep Learning (RMDL): a new ensemble, deep learning approach for classification. RMDL solves the problem of finding the best deep learning structure and architecture while simultaneously improving robustness and accuracy through ensembles of deep learning architectures. In short, RMDL trains multiple randomly generated models of Deep Neural Network (DNN), Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) in parallel and combines their results to produce better result of any of those models individually. In this paper, we describe RMDL model and compare the results for image and text classification as well as face recognition. We used MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets as ground truth datasets for image classification and WOS, Reuters, IMDB, and 20newsgroup datasets for text classification. Lastly, we used ORL dataset to compare the model performance on face recognition task.
Towards Scalable and Reliable Capsule Networks for Challenging NLP   Applications.Obstacles hindering the development of capsule networks for challenging NLP applications include poor scalability to large output spaces and less reliable routing processes. In this paper, we introduce: 1) an agreement score to evaluate the performance of routing processes at instance level; 2) an adaptive optimizer to enhance the reliability of routing; 3) capsule compression and partial routing to improve the scalability of capsule networks. We validate our approach on two NLP tasks, namely: multi-label text classification and question answering. Experimental results show that our approach considerably improves over strong competitors on both tasks. In addition, we gain the best results in low-resource settings with few training instances.
Investigating Capsule Networks with Dynamic Routing for Text   Classification.In this study, we explore capsule networks with dynamic routing for text classification. We propose three strategies to stabilize the dynamic routing process to alleviate the disturbance of some noise capsules which may contain "background" information or have not been successfully trained. A series of experiments are conducted with capsule networks on six text classification benchmarks. Capsule networks achieve state of the art on 4 out of 6 datasets, which shows the effectiveness of capsule networks for text classification. We additionally show that capsule networks exhibit significant improvement when transfer single-label to multi-label text classification over strong baseline methods. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that capsule networks have been empirically investigated for text modeling.
Discrete Autoencoders for Sequence Models.Recurrent models for sequences have been recently successful at many tasks, especially for language modeling and machine translation. Nevertheless, it remains challenging to extract good representations from these models. For instance, even though language has a clear hierarchical structure going from characters through words to sentences, it is not apparent in current language models. We propose to improve the representation in sequence models by augmenting current approaches with an autoencoder that is forced to compress the sequence through an intermediate discrete latent space. In order to propagate gradients though this discrete representation we introduce an improved semantic hashing technique. We show that this technique performs well on a newly proposed quantitative efficiency measure. We also analyze latent codes produced by the model showing how they correspond to words and phrases. Finally, we present an application of the autoencoder-augmented model to generating diverse translations.
Recurrent Neural Networks Hardware Implementation on FPGA.Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) have the ability to retain memory and learn data sequences. Due to the recurrent nature of RNNs, it is sometimes hard to parallelize all its computations on conventional hardware. CPUs do not currently offer large parallelism, while GPUs offer limited parallelism due to sequential components of RNN models. In this paper we present a hardware implementation of Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent network on the programmable logic Zynq 7020 FPGA from Xilinx. We implemented a RNN with $2$ layers and $128$ hidden units in hardware and it has been tested using a character level language model. The implementation is more than $21\times$ faster than the ARM CPU embedded on the Zynq 7020 FPGA. This work can potentially evolve to a RNN co-processor for future mobile devices.
Deep contextualized word representations.We introduce a new type of deep contextualized word representation that models both (1) complex characteristics of word use (e.g., syntax and semantics), and (2) how these uses vary across linguistic contexts (i.e., to model polysemy). Our word vectors are learned functions of the internal states of a deep bidirectional language model (biLM), which is pre-trained on a large text corpus. We show that these representations can be easily added to existing models and significantly improve the state of the art across six challenging NLP problems, including question answering, textual entailment and sentiment analysis. We also present an analysis showing that exposing the deep internals of the pre-trained network is crucial, allowing downstream models to mix different types of semi-supervision signals.
Language Models are Few-Shot Learners.Recent work has demonstrated substantial gains on many NLP tasks and benchmarks by pre-training on a large corpus of text followed by fine-tuning on a specific task. While typically task-agnostic in architecture, this method still requires task-specific fine-tuning datasets of thousands or tens of thousands of examples. By contrast, humans can generally perform a new language task from only a few examples or from simple instructions - something which current NLP systems still largely struggle to do. Here we show that scaling up language models greatly improves task-agnostic, few-shot performance, sometimes even reaching competitiveness with prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Specifically, we train GPT-3, an autoregressive language model with 175 billion parameters, 10x more than any previous non-sparse language model, and test its performance in the few-shot setting. For all tasks, GPT-3 is applied without any gradient updates or fine-tuning, with tasks and few-shot demonstrations specified purely via text interaction with the model. GPT-3 achieves strong performance on many NLP datasets, including translation, question-answering, and cloze tasks, as well as several tasks that require on-the-fly reasoning or domain adaptation, such as unscrambling words, using a novel word in a sentence, or performing 3-digit arithmetic. At the same time, we also identify some datasets where GPT-3's few-shot learning still struggles, as well as some datasets where GPT-3 faces methodological issues related to training on large web corpora. Finally, we find that GPT-3 can generate samples of news articles which human evaluators have difficulty distinguishing from articles written by humans. We discuss broader societal impacts of this finding and of GPT-3 in general.
Ludwig: a type-based declarative deep learning toolbox.In this work we present Ludwig, a flexible, extensible and easy to use toolbox which allows users to train deep learning models and use them for obtaining predictions without writing code. Ludwig implements a novel approach to deep learning model building based on two main abstractions: data types and declarative configuration files. The data type abstraction allows for easier code and sub-model reuse, and the standardized interfaces imposed by this abstraction allow for encapsulation and make the code easy to extend. Declarative model definition configuration files enable inexperienced users to obtain effective models and increase the productivity of expert users. Alongside these two innovations, Ludwig introduces a general modularized deep learning architecture called Encoder-Combiner-Decoder that can be instantiated to perform a vast amount of machine learning tasks. These innovations make it possible for engineers, scientists from other fields and, in general, a much broader audience to adopt deep learning models for their tasks, concretely helping in its democratization.
AdamP: Slowing Down the Slowdown for Momentum Optimizers on   Scale-invariant Weights.Normalization techniques are a boon for modern deep learning. They let weights converge more quickly with often better generalization performances. It has been argued that the normalization-induced scale invariance among the weights provides an advantageous ground for gradient descent (GD) optimizers: the effective step sizes are automatically reduced over time, stabilizing the overall training procedure. It is often overlooked, however, that the additional introduction of momentum in GD optimizers results in a far more rapid reduction in effective step sizes for scale-invariant weights, a phenomenon that has not yet been studied and may have caused unwanted side effects in the current practice. This is a crucial issue because arguably the vast majority of modern deep neural networks consist of (1) momentum-based GD (e.g. SGD or Adam) and (2) scale-invariant parameters. In this paper, we verify that the widely-adopted combination of the two ingredients lead to the premature decay of effective step sizes and sub-optimal model performances. We propose a simple and effective remedy, SGDP and AdamP: get rid of the radial component, or the norm-increasing direction, at each optimizer step. Because of the scale invariance, this modification only alters the effective step sizes without changing the effective update directions, thus enjoying the original convergence properties of GD optimizers. Given the ubiquity of momentum GD and scale invariance in machine learning, we have evaluated our methods against the baselines on 13 benchmarks. They range from vision tasks like classification (e.g. ImageNet), retrieval (e.g. CUB and SOP), and detection (e.g. COCO) to language modelling (e.g. WikiText) and audio classification (e.g. DCASE) tasks. We verify that our solution brings about uniform gains in those benchmarks. Source code is available at https://github.com/clovaai/AdamP.
Semi-Supervised Speech Recognition via Local Prior Matching.For sequence transduction tasks like speech recognition, a strong structured prior model encodes rich information about the target space, implicitly ruling out invalid sequences by assigning them low probability. In this work, we propose local prior matching (LPM), a semi-supervised objective that distills knowledge from a strong prior (e.g. a language model) to provide learning signal to a discriminative model trained on unlabeled speech. We demonstrate that LPM is theoretically well-motivated, simple to implement, and superior to existing knowledge distillation techniques under comparable settings. Starting from a baseline trained on 100 hours of labeled speech, with an additional 360 hours of unlabeled data, LPM recovers 54% and 73% of the word error rate on clean and noisy test sets relative to a fully supervised model on the same data.
Universal Transformers.Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) sequentially process data by updating their state with each new data point, and have long been the de facto choice for sequence modeling tasks. However, their inherently sequential computation makes them slow to train. Feed-forward and convolutional architectures have recently been shown to achieve superior results on some sequence modeling tasks such as machine translation, with the added advantage that they concurrently process all inputs in the sequence, leading to easy parallelization and faster training times. Despite these successes, however, popular feed-forward sequence models like the Transformer fail to generalize in many simple tasks that recurrent models handle with ease, e.g. copying strings or even simple logical inference when the string or formula lengths exceed those observed at training time. We propose the Universal Transformer (UT), a parallel-in-time self-attentive recurrent sequence model which can be cast as a generalization of the Transformer model and which addresses these issues. UTs combine the parallelizability and global receptive field of feed-forward sequence models like the Transformer with the recurrent inductive bias of RNNs. We also add a dynamic per-position halting mechanism and find that it improves accuracy on several tasks. In contrast to the standard Transformer, under certain assumptions, UTs can be shown to be Turing-complete. Our experiments show that UTs outperform standard Transformers on a wide range of algorithmic and language understanding tasks, including the challenging LAMBADA language modeling task where UTs achieve a new state of the art, and machine translation where UTs achieve a 0.9 BLEU improvement over Transformers on the WMT14 En-De dataset.
Training Tips for the Transformer Model.This article describes our experiments in neural machine translation using the recent Tensor2Tensor framework and the Transformer sequence-to-sequence model (Vaswani et al., 2017). We examine some of the critical parameters that affect the final translation quality, memory usage, training stability and training time, concluding each experiment with a set of recommendations for fellow researchers. In addition to confirming the general mantra "more data and larger models", we address scaling to multiple GPUs and provide practical tips for improved training regarding batch size, learning rate, warmup steps, maximum sentence length and checkpoint averaging. We hope that our observations will allow others to get better results given their particular hardware and data constraints.
Tensor2Tensor for Neural Machine Translation.Tensor2Tensor is a library for deep learning models that is well-suited for neural machine translation and includes the reference implementation of the state-of-the-art Transformer model.
Self-Attention with Relative Position Representations.Relying entirely on an attention mechanism, the Transformer introduced by Vaswani et al. (2017) achieves state-of-the-art results for machine translation. In contrast to recurrent and convolutional neural networks, it does not explicitly model relative or absolute position information in its structure. Instead, it requires adding representations of absolute positions to its inputs. In this work we present an alternative approach, extending the self-attention mechanism to efficiently consider representations of the relative positions, or distances between sequence elements. On the WMT 2014 English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks, this approach yields improvements of 1.3 BLEU and 0.3 BLEU over absolute position representations, respectively. Notably, we observe that combining relative and absolute position representations yields no further improvement in translation quality. We describe an efficient implementation of our method and cast it as an instance of relation-aware self-attention mechanisms that can generalize to arbitrary graph-labeled inputs.
Discrete Autoencoders for Sequence Models.Recurrent models for sequences have been recently successful at many tasks, especially for language modeling and machine translation. Nevertheless, it remains challenging to extract good representations from these models. For instance, even though language has a clear hierarchical structure going from characters through words to sentences, it is not apparent in current language models. We propose to improve the representation in sequence models by augmenting current approaches with an autoencoder that is forced to compress the sequence through an intermediate discrete latent space. In order to propagate gradients though this discrete representation we introduce an improved semantic hashing technique. We show that this technique performs well on a newly proposed quantitative efficiency measure. We also analyze latent codes produced by the model showing how they correspond to words and phrases. Finally, we present an application of the autoencoder-augmented model to generating diverse translations.
Neural Machine Translation.Draft of textbook chapter on neural machine translation. a comprehensive treatment of the topic, ranging from introduction to neural networks, computation graphs, description of the currently dominant attentional sequence-to-sequence model, recent refinements, alternative architectures and challenges. Written as chapter for the textbook Statistical Machine Translation. Used in the JHU Fall 2017 class on machine translation.
Depthwise Separable Convolutions for Neural Machine Translation.Depthwise separable convolutions reduce the number of parameters and computation used in convolutional operations while increasing representational efficiency. They have been shown to be successful in image classification models, both in obtaining better models than previously possible for a given parameter count (the Xception architecture) and considerably reducing the number of parameters required to perform at a given level (the MobileNets family of architectures). Recently, convolutional sequence-to-sequence networks have been applied to machine translation tasks with good results. In this work, we study how depthwise separable convolutions can be applied to neural machine translation. We introduce a new architecture inspired by Xception and ByteNet, called SliceNet, which enables a significant reduction of the parameter count and amount of computation needed to obtain results like ByteNet, and, with a similar parameter count, achieves new state-of-the-art results. In addition to showing that depthwise separable convolutions perform well for machine translation, we investigate the architectural changes that they enable: we observe that thanks to depthwise separability, we can increase the length of convolution windows, removing the need for filter dilation. We also introduce a new "super-separable" convolution operation that further reduces the number of parameters and computational cost for obtaining state-of-the-art results.
Ludwig: a type-based declarative deep learning toolbox.In this work we present Ludwig, a flexible, extensible and easy to use toolbox which allows users to train deep learning models and use them for obtaining predictions without writing code. Ludwig implements a novel approach to deep learning model building based on two main abstractions: data types and declarative configuration files. The data type abstraction allows for easier code and sub-model reuse, and the standardized interfaces imposed by this abstraction allow for encapsulation and make the code easy to extend. Declarative model definition configuration files enable inexperienced users to obtain effective models and increase the productivity of expert users. Alongside these two innovations, Ludwig introduces a general modularized deep learning architecture called Encoder-Combiner-Decoder that can be instantiated to perform a vast amount of machine learning tasks. These innovations make it possible for engineers, scientists from other fields and, in general, a much broader audience to adopt deep learning models for their tasks, concretely helping in its democratization.
Segmental Recurrent Neural Networks.We introduce segmental recurrent neural networks (SRNNs) which define, given an input sequence, a joint probability distribution over segmentations of the input and labelings of the segments. Representations of the input segments (i.e., contiguous subsequences of the input) are computed by encoding their constituent tokens using bidirectional recurrent neural nets, and these "segment embeddings" are used to define compatibility scores with output labels. These local compatibility scores are integrated using a global semi-Markov conditional random field. Both fully supervised training -- in which segment boundaries and labels are observed -- as well as partially supervised training -- in which segment boundaries are latent -- are straightforward. Experiments on handwriting recognition and joint Chinese word segmentation/POS tagging show that, compared to models that do not explicitly represent segments such as BIO tagging schemes and connectionist temporal classification (CTC), SRNNs obtain substantially higher accuracies.
NLPDove at SemEval-2020 Task 12: Improving Offensive Language Detection   with Cross-lingual Transfer.This paper describes our approach to the task of identifying offensive languages in a multilingual setting. We investigate two data augmentation strategies: using additional semi-supervised labels with different thresholds and cross-lingual transfer with data selection. Leveraging the semi-supervised dataset resulted in performance improvements compared to the baseline trained solely with the manually-annotated dataset. We propose a new metric, Translation Embedding Distance, to measure the transferability of instances for cross-lingual data selection. We also introduce various preprocessing steps tailored for social media text along with methods to fine-tune the pre-trained multilingual BERT (mBERT) for offensive language identification. Our multilingual systems achieved competitive results in Greek, Danish, and Turkish at OffensEval 2020.
On the Limitations of Cross-lingual Encoders as Exposed by   Reference-Free Machine Translation Evaluation.Evaluation of cross-lingual encoders is usually performed either via zero-shot cross-lingual transfer in supervised downstream tasks or via unsupervised cross-lingual textual similarity. In this paper, we concern ourselves with reference-free machine translation (MT) evaluation where we directly compare source texts to (sometimes low-quality) system translations, which represents a natural adversarial setup for multilingual encoders. Reference-free evaluation holds the promise of web-scale comparison of MT systems. We systematically investigate a range of metrics based on state-of-the-art cross-lingual semantic representations obtained with pretrained M-BERT and LASER. We find that they perform poorly as semantic encoders for reference-free MT evaluation and identify their two key limitations, namely, (a) a semantic mismatch between representations of mutual translations and, more prominently, (b) the inability to punish "translationese", i.e., low-quality literal translations. We propose two partial remedies: (1) post-hoc re-alignment of the vector spaces and (2) coupling of semantic-similarity based metrics with target-side language modeling. In segment-level MT evaluation, our best metric surpasses reference-based BLEU by 5.7 correlation points.
Translation Artifacts in Cross-lingual Transfer Learning.Both human and machine translation play a central role in cross-lingual transfer learning: many multilingual datasets have been created through professional translation services, and using machine translation to translate either the test set or the training set is a widely used transfer technique. In this paper, we show that such translation process can introduce subtle artifacts that have a notable impact in existing cross-lingual models. For instance, in natural language inference, translating the premise and the hypothesis independently can reduce the lexical overlap between them, which current models are highly sensitive to. We show that some previous findings in cross-lingual transfer learning need to be reconsidered in the light of this phenomenon. Based on the gained insights, we also improve the state-of-the-art in XNLI for the translate-test and zero-shot approaches by 4.3 and 2.8 points, respectively.
Inducing Language-Agnostic Multilingual Representations.Multilingual representations have the potential to make cross-lingual systems available to the vast majority of languages in the world. However, they currently require large pretraining corpora, or assume access to typologically similar languages. In this work, we address these obstacles by removing language identity signals from multilingual embeddings. We examine three approaches for this: 1) re-aligning the vector spaces of target languages (all together) to a pivot source language; 2) removing languages-specific means and variances, which yields better discriminativeness of embeddings as a by-product; and 3) normalizing input texts by removing morphological contractions and sentence reordering, thus yielding language-agnostic representations. We evaluate on the tasks of XNLI and reference-free MT evaluation of varying difficulty across 19 selected languages. Our experiments demonstrate the language-agnostic behavior of our multilingual representations, which manifest the potential of zero-shot cross-lingual transfer to distant and low-resource languages, and decrease the performance gap by 8.9 points (M-BERT) and 18.2 points (XLM-R) on average across all tasks and languages. We make our codes and models available.
End-to-End Slot Alignment and Recognition for Cross-Lingual NLU.Natural language understanding (NLU) in the context of goal-oriented dialog systems typically includes intent classification and slot labeling tasks. Existing methods to expand an NLU system to new languages use machine translation with slot label projection from source to the translated utterances, and thus are sensitive to projection errors. In this work, we propose a novel end-to-end model that learns to align and predict target slot labels jointly for cross-lingual transfer. We introduce MultiATIS++, a new multilingual NLU corpus that extends the Multilingual ATIS corpus to nine languages across four language families, and evaluate our method using the corpus. Results show that our method outperforms a simple label projection method using fast-align on most languages, and achieves competitive performance to the more complex, state-of-the-art projection method with only half of the training time. We release our MultiATIS++ corpus to the community to continue future research on cross-lingual NLU.
Cross-lingual Dependency Parsing with Unlabeled Auxiliary Languages.Cross-lingual transfer learning has become an important weapon to battle the unavailability of annotated resources for low-resource languages. One of the fundamental techniques to transfer across languages is learning \emph{language-agnostic} representations, in the form of word embeddings or contextual encodings. In this work, we propose to leverage unannotated sentences from auxiliary languages to help learning language-agnostic representations. Specifically, we explore adversarial training for learning contextual encoders that produce invariant representations across languages to facilitate cross-lingual transfer. We conduct experiments on cross-lingual dependency parsing where we train a dependency parser on a source language and transfer it to a wide range of target languages. Experiments on 28 target languages demonstrate that adversarial training significantly improves the overall transfer performances under several different settings. We conduct a careful analysis to evaluate the language-agnostic representations resulted from adversarial training.
Ranking Transfer Languages with Pragmatically-Motivated Features for   Multilingual Sentiment Analysis.Cross-lingual transfer learning studies how datasets, annotations, and models can be transferred from resource-rich languages to improve language technologies in resource-poor settings. Recent works have shown that we can further benefit from the selection of the best transfer language. In this paper, we propose three pragmatically-motivated features that can help guide the optimal transfer language selection problem for cross-lingual transfer. Specifically, the proposed features operationalize cross-cultural similarities that manifest in various linguistic patterns: language context-level, sharing multi-word expressions, and the use of emotion concepts. Our experimental results show that these features significantly improve the prediction of optimal transfer languages over baselines in sentiment analysis, but are less useful for dependency parsing. Further analyses show that the proposed features indeed capture the intended cross-cultural similarities and align well with existing work in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.
Fine-Grained Analysis of Cross-Linguistic Syntactic Divergences.The patterns in which the syntax of different languages converges and diverges are often used to inform work on cross-lingual transfer. Nevertheless, little empirical work has been done on quantifying the prevalence of different syntactic divergences across language pairs. We propose a framework for extracting divergence patterns for any language pair from a parallel corpus, building on Universal Dependencies. We show that our framework provides a detailed picture of cross-language divergences, generalizes previous approaches, and lends itself to full automation. We further present a novel dataset, a manually word-aligned subset of the Parallel UD corpus in five languages, and use it to perform a detailed corpus study. We demonstrate the usefulness of the resulting analysis by showing that it can help account for performance patterns of a cross-lingual parser.
What's so special about BERT's layers? A closer look at the NLP pipeline   in monolingual and multilingual models.Peeking into the inner workings of BERT has shown that its layers resemble the classical NLP pipeline, with progressively more complex tasks being concentrated in later layers. To investigate to what extent these results also hold for a language other than English, we probe a Dutch BERT-based model and the multilingual BERT model for Dutch NLP tasks. In addition, through a deeper analysis of part-of-speech tagging, we show that also within a given task, information is spread over different parts of the network and the pipeline might not be as neat as it seems. Each layer has different specialisations, so that it may be more useful to combine information from different layers, instead of selecting a single one based on the best overall performance.
Generalizing Natural Language Analysis through Span-relation   Representations.Natural language processing covers a wide variety of tasks predicting syntax, semantics, and information content, and usually each type of output is generated with specially designed architectures. In this paper, we provide the simple insight that a great variety of tasks can be represented in a single unified format consisting of labeling spans and relations between spans, thus a single task-independent model can be used across different tasks. We perform extensive experiments to test this insight on 10 disparate tasks spanning dependency parsing (syntax), semantic role labeling (semantics), relation extraction (information content), aspect based sentiment analysis (sentiment), and many others, achieving performance comparable to state-of-the-art specialized models. We further demonstrate benefits of multi-task learning, and also show that the proposed method makes it easy to analyze differences and similarities in how the model handles different tasks. Finally, we convert these datasets into a unified format to build a benchmark, which provides a holistic testbed for evaluating future models for generalized natural language analysis.
Unsupervised Domain Adaptation of Contextualized Embeddings for Sequence   Labeling.Contextualized word embeddings such as ELMo and BERT provide a foundation for strong performance across a wide range of natural language processing tasks by pretraining on large corpora of unlabeled text. However, the applicability of this approach is unknown when the target domain varies substantially from the pretraining corpus. We are specifically interested in the scenario in which labeled data is available in only a canonical source domain such as newstext, and the target domain is distinct from both the labeled and pretraining texts. To address this scenario, we propose domain-adaptive fine-tuning, in which the contextualized embeddings are adapted by masked language modeling on text from the target domain. We test this approach on sequence labeling in two challenging domains: Early Modern English and Twitter. Both domains differ substantially from existing pretraining corpora, and domain-adaptive fine-tuning yields substantial improvements over strong BERT baselines, with particularly impressive results on out-of-vocabulary words. We conclude that domain-adaptive fine-tuning offers a simple and effective approach for the unsupervised adaptation of sequence labeling to difficult new domains.
Morphosyntactic Tagging with a Meta-BiLSTM Model over Context Sensitive   Token Encodings.The rise of neural networks, and particularly recurrent neural networks, has produced significant advances in part-of-speech tagging accuracy. One characteristic common among these models is the presence of rich initial word encodings. These encodings typically are composed of a recurrent character-based representation with learned and pre-trained word embeddings. However, these encodings do not consider a context wider than a single word and it is only through subsequent recurrent layers that word or sub-word information interacts. In this paper, we investigate models that use recurrent neural networks with sentence-level context for initial character and word-based representations. In particular we show that optimal results are obtained by integrating these context sensitive representations through synchronized training with a meta-model that learns to combine their states. We present results on part-of-speech and morphological tagging with state-of-the-art performance on a number of languages.
Parameter Space Factorization for Zero-Shot Learning across Tasks and   Languages.Most combinations of NLP tasks and language varieties lack in-domain examples for supervised training because of the paucity of annotated data. How can neural models make sample-efficient generalizations from task-language combinations with available data to low-resource ones? In this work, we propose a Bayesian generative model for the space of neural parameters. We assume that this space can be factorized into latent variables for each language and each task. We infer the posteriors over such latent variables based on data from seen task-language combinations through variational inference. This enables zero-shot classification on unseen combinations at prediction time. For instance, given training data for named entity recognition (NER) in Vietnamese and for part-of-speech (POS) tagging in Wolof, our model can perform accurate predictions for NER in Wolof. In particular, we experiment with a typologically diverse sample of 33 languages from 4 continents and 11 families, and show that our model yields comparable or better results than state-of-the-art, zero-shot cross-lingual transfer methods. Moreover, we demonstrate that approximate Bayesian model averaging results in smoother predictive distributions, whose entropy inversely correlates with accuracy. Hence, the proposed framework also offers robust estimates of prediction uncertainty. Our code is located at github.com/cambridgeltl/parameter-factorization
Real-Time Emotion Recognition via Attention Gated Hierarchical Memory   Network.Real-time emotion recognition (RTER) in conversations is significant for developing emotionally intelligent chatting machines. Without the future context in RTER, it becomes critical to build the memory bank carefully for capturing historical context and summarize the memories appropriately to retrieve relevant information. We propose an Attention Gated Hierarchical Memory Network (AGHMN) to address the problems of prior work: (1) Commonly used convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for utterance feature extraction are less compatible in the memory modules; (2) Unidirectional gated recurrent units (GRUs) only allow each historical utterance to have context before it, preventing information propagation in the opposite direction; (3) The Soft Attention for summarizing loses the positional and ordering information of memories, regardless of how the memory bank is built. Particularly, we propose a Hierarchical Memory Network (HMN) with a bidirectional GRU (BiGRU) as the utterance reader and a BiGRU fusion layer for the interaction between historical utterances. For memory summarizing, we propose an Attention GRU (AGRU) where we utilize the attention weights to update the internal state of GRU. We further promote the AGRU to a bidirectional variant (BiAGRU) to balance the contextual information from recent memories and that from distant memories. We conduct experiments on two emotion conversation datasets with extensive analysis, demonstrating the efficacy of our AGHMN models.
DeXpression: Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Expression   Recognition.We propose a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture for facial expression recognition. The proposed architecture is independent of any hand-crafted feature extraction and performs better than the earlier proposed convolutional neural network based approaches. We visualize the automatically extracted features which have been learned by the network in order to provide a better understanding. The standard datasets, i.e. Extended Cohn-Kanade (CKP) and MMI Facial Expression Databse are used for the quantitative evaluation. On the CKP set the current state of the art approach, using CNNs, achieves an accuracy of 99.2%. For the MMI dataset, currently the best accuracy for emotion recognition is 93.33%. The proposed architecture achieves 99.6% for CKP and 98.63% for MMI, therefore performing better than the state of the art using CNNs. Automatic facial expression recognition has a broad spectrum of applications such as human-computer interaction and safety systems. This is due to the fact that non-verbal cues are important forms of communication and play a pivotal role in interpersonal communication. The performance of the proposed architecture endorses the efficacy and reliable usage of the proposed work for real world applications.
Student Engagement Detection Using Emotion Analysis, Eye Tracking and   Head Movement with Machine Learning.With the increase of distance learning, in general, and e-learning, in particular, having a system capable of determining the engagement of students is of primordial importance, and one of the biggest challenges, both for teachers, researchers and policy makers. Here, we present a system to detect the engagement level of the students. It uses only information provided by the typical built-in web-camera present in a laptop computer, and was designed to work in real time. We combine information about the movements of the eyes and head, and facial emotions to produce a concentration index with three classes of engagement: "very engaged", "nominally engaged" and "not engaged at all". The system was tested in a typical e-learning scenario, and the results show that it correctly identifies each period of time where students were "very engaged", "nominally engaged" and "not engaged at all". Additionally, the results also show that the students with best scores also have higher concentration indexes.
Emotion Recognition on large video dataset based on Convolutional   Feature Extractor and Recurrent Neural Network.For many years, the emotion recognition task has remained one of the most interesting and important problems in the field of human-computer interaction. In this study, we consider the emotion recognition task as a classification as well as a regression task by processing encoded emotions in different datasets using deep learning models. Our model combines convolutional neural network (CNN) with recurrent neural network (RNN) to predict dimensional emotions on video data. At the first step, CNN extracts feature vectors from video frames. In the second step, we fed these feature vectors to train RNN for exploiting the temporal dynamics of video. Furthermore, we analyzed how each neural network contributes to the system's overall performance. The experiments are performed on publicly available datasets including the largest modern Aff-Wild2 database. It contains over sixty hours of video data. We discovered the problem of overfitting of the model on an unbalanced dataset with an illustrative example using confusion matrices. The problem is solved by downsampling technique to balance the dataset. By significantly decreasing training data, we balance the dataset, thereby, the overall performance of the model is improved. Hence, the study qualitatively describes the abilities of deep learning models exploring enough amount of data to predict facial emotions. Our proposed method is implemented using Tensorflow Keras.
Emotion Recognition from Speech.In this work, we conduct an extensive comparison of various approaches to speech based emotion recognition systems. The analyses were carried out on audio recordings from Ryerson Audio-Visual Database of Emotional Speech and Song (RAVDESS). After pre-processing the raw audio files, features such as Log-Mel Spectrogram, Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCCs), pitch and energy were considered. The significance of these features for emotion classification was compared by applying methods such as Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). On the 14-class (2 genders x 7 emotions) classification task, an accuracy of 68% was achieved with a 4-layer 2 dimensional CNN using the Log-Mel Spectrogram features. We also observe that, in emotion recognition, the choice of audio features impacts the results much more than the model complexity.
Modeling emotion in complex stories: the Stanford Emotional Narratives   Dataset.Human emotions unfold over time, and more affective computing research has to prioritize capturing this crucial component of real-world affect. Modeling dynamic emotional stimuli requires solving the twin challenges of time-series modeling and of collecting high-quality time-series datasets. We begin by assessing the state-of-the-art in time-series emotion recognition, and we review contemporary time-series approaches in affective computing, including discriminative and generative models. We then introduce the first version of the Stanford Emotional Narratives Dataset (SENDv1): a set of rich, multimodal videos of self-paced, unscripted emotional narratives, annotated for emotional valence over time. The complex narratives and naturalistic expressions in this dataset provide a challenging test for contemporary time-series emotion recognition models. We demonstrate several baseline and state-of-the-art modeling approaches on the SEND, including a Long Short-Term Memory model and a multimodal Variational Recurrent Neural Network, which perform comparably to the human-benchmark. We end by discussing the implications for future research in time-series affective computing.
SPARQA: Skeleton-based Semantic Parsing for Complex Questions over   Knowledge Bases.Semantic parsing transforms a natural language question into a formal query over a knowledge base. Many existing methods rely on syntactic parsing like dependencies. However, the accuracy of producing such expressive formalisms is not satisfying on long complex questions. In this paper, we propose a novel skeleton grammar to represent the high-level structure of a complex question. This dedicated coarse-grained formalism with a BERT-based parsing algorithm helps to improve the accuracy of the downstream fine-grained semantic parsing. Besides, to align the structure of a question with the structure of a knowledge base, our multi-strategy method combines sentence-level and word-level semantics. Our approach shows promising performance on several datasets.
Model-based Interactive Semantic Parsing: A Unified Framework and A   Text-to-SQL Case Study.As a promising paradigm, interactive semantic parsing has shown to improve both semantic parsing accuracy and user confidence in the results. In this paper, we propose a new, unified formulation of the interactive semantic parsing problem, where the goal is to design a model-based intelligent agent. The agent maintains its own state as the current predicted semantic parse, decides whether and where human intervention is needed, and generates a clarification question in natural language. A key part of the agent is a world model: it takes a percept (either an initial question or subsequent feedback from the user) and transitions to a new state. We then propose a simple yet remarkably effective instantiation of our framework, demonstrated on two text-to-SQL datasets (WikiSQL and Spider) with different state-of-the-art base semantic parsers. Compared to an existing interactive semantic parsing approach that treats the base parser as a black box, our approach solicits less user feedback but yields higher run-time accuracy.
Identity-Guided Human Semantic Parsing for Person Re-Identification.Existing alignment-based methods have to employ the pretrained human parsing models to achieve the pixel-level alignment, and cannot identify the personal belongings (e.g., backpacks and reticule) which are crucial to person re-ID. In this paper, we propose the identity-guided human semantic parsing approach (ISP) to locate both the human body parts and personal belongings at pixel-level for aligned person re-ID only with person identity labels. We design the cascaded clustering on feature maps to generate the pseudo-labels of human parts. Specifically, for the pixels of all images of a person, we first group them to foreground or background and then group the foreground pixels to human parts. The cluster assignments are subsequently used as pseudo-labels of human parts to supervise the part estimation and ISP iteratively learns the feature maps and groups them. Finally, local features of both human body parts and personal belongings are obtained according to the selflearned part estimation, and only features of visible parts are utilized for the retrieval. Extensive experiments on three widely used datasets validate the superiority of ISP over lots of state-of-the-art methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/CASIA-IVA-Lab/ISP-reID.
Learning Structured Natural Language Representations for Semantic   Parsing.We introduce a neural semantic parser that converts natural language utterances to intermediate representations in the form of predicate-argument structures, which are induced with a transition system and subsequently mapped to target domains. The semantic parser is trained end-to-end using annotated logical forms or their denotations. We obtain competitive results on various datasets. The induced predicate-argument structures shed light on the types of representations useful for semantic parsing and how these are different from linguistically motivated ones.
Improving Semantic Relevance for Sequence-to-Sequence Learning of   Chinese Social Media Text Summarization.Current Chinese social media text summarization models are based on an encoder-decoder framework. Although its generated summaries are similar to source texts literally, they have low semantic relevance. In this work, our goal is to improve semantic relevance between source texts and summaries for Chinese social media summarization. We introduce a Semantic Relevance Based neural model to encourage high semantic similarity between texts and summaries. In our model, the source text is represented by a gated attention encoder, while the summary representation is produced by a decoder. Besides, the similarity score between the representations is maximized during training. Our experiments show that the proposed model outperforms baseline systems on a social media corpus.
Learning by Semantic Similarity Makes Abstractive Summarization Better.One of the obstacles of abstractive summarization is the presence of various potentially correct predictions. Widely used objective functions for supervised learning, such as cross-entropy loss, cannot handle alternative answers effectively. Rather, they act as a training noise. In this paper, we propose Semantic Similarity strategy that can consider semantic meanings of generated summaries while training. Our training objective includes maximizing semantic similarity score which is calculated by an additional layer that estimates semantic similarity between generated summary and reference summary. By leveraging pre-trained language models, our model achieves a new state-of-the-art performance, ROUGE-L score of 41.5 on CNN/DM dataset. To support automatic evaluation, we also conducted human evaluation and received higher scores relative to both baseline and reference summaries.
Beyond BLEU: Training Neural Machine Translation with Semantic   Similarity.While most neural machine translation (NMT) systems are still trained using maximum likelihood estimation, recent work has demonstrated that optimizing systems to directly improve evaluation metrics such as BLEU can substantially improve final translation accuracy. However, training with BLEU has some limitations: it doesn't assign partial credit, it has a limited range of output values, and it can penalize semantically correct hypotheses if they differ lexically from the reference. In this paper, we introduce an alternative reward function for optimizing NMT systems that is based on recent work in semantic similarity. We evaluate on four disparate languages translated to English, and find that training with our proposed metric results in better translations as evaluated by BLEU, semantic similarity, and human evaluation, and also that the optimization procedure converges faster. Analysis suggests that this is because the proposed metric is more conducive to optimization, assigning partial credit and providing more diversity in scores than BLEU.
Representation learning for very short texts using weighted word   embedding aggregation.Short text messages such as tweets are very noisy and sparse in their use of vocabulary. Traditional textual representations, such as tf-idf, have difficulty grasping the semantic meaning of such texts, which is important in applications such as event detection, opinion mining, news recommendation, etc. We constructed a method based on semantic word embeddings and frequency information to arrive at low-dimensional representations for short texts designed to capture semantic similarity. For this purpose we designed a weight-based model and a learning procedure based on a novel median-based loss function. This paper discusses the details of our model and the optimization methods, together with the experimental results on both Wikipedia and Twitter data. We find that our method outperforms the baseline approaches in the experiments, and that it generalizes well on different word embeddings without retraining. Our method is therefore capable of retaining most of the semantic information in the text, and is applicable out-of-the-box.
Don't Settle for Average, Go for the Max: Fuzzy Sets and Max-Pooled Word   Vectors.Recent literature suggests that averaged word vectors followed by simple post-processing outperform many deep learning methods on semantic textual similarity tasks. Furthermore, when averaged word vectors are trained supervised on large corpora of paraphrases, they achieve state-of-the-art results on standard STS benchmarks. Inspired by these insights, we push the limits of word embeddings even further. We propose a novel fuzzy bag-of-words (FBoW) representation for text that contains all the words in the vocabulary simultaneously but with different degrees of membership, which are derived from similarities between word vectors. We show that max-pooled word vectors are only a special case of fuzzy BoW and should be compared via fuzzy Jaccard index rather than cosine similarity. Finally, we propose DynaMax, a completely unsupervised and non-parametric similarity measure that dynamically extracts and max-pools good features depending on the sentence pair. This method is both efficient and easy to implement, yet outperforms current baselines on STS tasks by a large margin and is even competitive with supervised word vectors trained to directly optimise cosine similarity.
Span-Based Constituency Parsing with a Structure-Label System and   Provably Optimal Dynamic Oracles.Parsing accuracy using efficient greedy transition systems has improved dramatically in recent years thanks to neural networks. Despite striking results in dependency parsing, however, neural models have not surpassed state-of-the-art approaches in constituency parsing. To remedy this, we introduce a new shift-reduce system whose stack contains merely sentence spans, represented by a bare minimum of LSTM features. We also design the first provably optimal dynamic oracle for constituency parsing, which runs in amortized O(1) time, compared to O(n^3) oracles for standard dependency parsing. Training with this oracle, we achieve the best F1 scores on both English and French of any parser that does not use reranking or external data.
Scene Graph Parsing as Dependency Parsing.In this paper, we study the problem of parsing structured knowledge graphs from textual descriptions. In particular, we consider the scene graph representation that considers objects together with their attributes and relations: this representation has been proved useful across a variety of vision and language applications. We begin by introducing an alternative but equivalent edge-centric view of scene graphs that connect to dependency parses. Together with a careful redesign of label and action space, we combine the two-stage pipeline used in prior work (generic dependency parsing followed by simple post-processing) into one, enabling end-to-end training. The scene graphs generated by our learned neural dependency parser achieve an F-score similarity of 49.67% to ground truth graphs on our evaluation set, surpassing best previous approaches by 5%. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of our learned parser on image retrieval applications.
Universal Dependency Parsing from Scratch.This paper describes Stanford's system at the CoNLL 2018 UD Shared Task. We introduce a complete neural pipeline system that takes raw text as input, and performs all tasks required by the shared task, ranging from tokenization and sentence segmentation, to POS tagging and dependency parsing. Our single system submission achieved very competitive performance on big treebanks. Moreover, after fixing an unfortunate bug, our corrected system would have placed the 2nd, 1st, and 3rd on the official evaluation metrics LAS,MLAS, and BLEX, and would have outperformed all submission systems on low-resource treebank categories on all metrics by a large margin. We further show the effectiveness of different model components through extensive ablation studies.
Are All Languages Created Equal in Multilingual BERT?.Multilingual BERT (mBERT) trained on 104 languages has shown surprisingly good cross-lingual performance on several NLP tasks, even without explicit cross-lingual signals. However, these evaluations have focused on cross-lingual transfer with high-resource languages, covering only a third of the languages covered by mBERT. We explore how mBERT performs on a much wider set of languages, focusing on the quality of representation for low-resource languages, measured by within-language performance. We consider three tasks: Named Entity Recognition (99 languages), Part-of-speech Tagging, and Dependency Parsing (54 languages each). mBERT does better than or comparable to baselines on high resource languages but does much worse for low resource languages. Furthermore, monolingual BERT models for these languages do even worse. Paired with similar languages, the performance gap between monolingual BERT and mBERT can be narrowed. We find that better models for low resource languages require more efficient pretraining techniques or more data.
Beto, Bentz, Becas: The Surprising Cross-Lingual Effectiveness of BERT.Pretrained contextual representation models (Peters et al., 2018; Devlin et al., 2018) have pushed forward the state-of-the-art on many NLP tasks. A new release of BERT (Devlin, 2018) includes a model simultaneously pretrained on 104 languages with impressive performance for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer on a natural language inference task. This paper explores the broader cross-lingual potential of mBERT (multilingual) as a zero shot language transfer model on 5 NLP tasks covering a total of 39 languages from various language families: NLI, document classification, NER, POS tagging, and dependency parsing. We compare mBERT with the best-published methods for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer and find mBERT competitive on each task. Additionally, we investigate the most effective strategy for utilizing mBERT in this manner, determine to what extent mBERT generalizes away from language specific features, and measure factors that influence cross-lingual transfer.
Neural Aspect and Opinion Term Extraction with Mined Rules as Weak   Supervision.Lack of labeled training data is a major bottleneck for neural network based aspect and opinion term extraction on product reviews. To alleviate this problem, we first propose an algorithm to automatically mine extraction rules from existing training examples based on dependency parsing results. The mined rules are then applied to label a large amount of auxiliary data. Finally, we study training procedures to train a neural model which can learn from both the data automatically labeled by the rules and a small amount of data accurately annotated by human. Experimental results show that although the mined rules themselves do not perform well due to their limited flexibility, the combination of human annotated data and rule labeled auxiliary data can improve the neural model and allow it to achieve performance better than or comparable with the current state-of-the-art.
AmazonQA: A Review-Based Question Answering Task.Every day, thousands of customers post questions on Amazon product pages. After some time, if they are fortunate, a knowledgeable customer might answer their question. Observing that many questions can be answered based upon the available product reviews, we propose the task of review-based QA. Given a corpus of reviews and a question, the QA system synthesizes an answer. To this end, we introduce a new dataset and propose a method that combines information retrieval techniques for selecting relevant reviews (given a question) and "reading comprehension" models for synthesizing an answer (given a question and review). Our dataset consists of 923k questions, 3.6M answers and 14M reviews across 156k products. Building on the well-known Amazon dataset, we collect additional annotations, marking each question as either answerable or unanswerable based on the available reviews. A deployed system could first classify a question as answerable and then attempt to generate an answer. Notably, unlike many popular QA datasets, here, the questions, passages, and answers are all extracted from real human interactions. We evaluate numerous models for answer generation and propose strong baselines, demonstrating the challenging nature of this new task.
PlenoptiCam v1.0: A light-field imaging framework.Light-field cameras play a vital role for rich 3-D information retrieval in narrow range depth sensing applications. The key obstacle in composing light-fields from exposures taken by a plenoptic camera is to computationally calibrate, re-align and rearrange four-dimensional image data. Several attempts have been proposed to enhance the overall image quality by tailoring pipelines dedicated to particular plenoptic cameras and improving the color consistency across viewpoints at the expense of high computational loads. The framework presented herein advances prior outcomes thanks to its cost-effective color equalization from parallax-invariant probability distribution transfers and a novel micro image scale-space analysis for generic camera calibration independent of the lens specifications. Our framework compensates for hot-pixels, resampling artifacts, micro image grid rotations just as vignetting in an innovative way to enable superior quality in sub-aperture image extraction, computational refocusing and Scheimpflug rendering with sub-sampling capabilities. Benchmark comparisons using established image metrics suggest that our proposed pipeline outperforms state-of-the-art tool chains in the majority of cases. The software described in this paper is released under an open-source license offering cross-platform compatibility, few dependencies and a lean graphical user interface to make the reproduction of results and the experimentation with plenoptic camera technology convenient for peer researchers, developers, photographers, data scientists and everyone else working in this field.
Text-to-SQL Generation for Question Answering on Electronic Medical   Records.Electronic medical records (EMR) contain comprehensive patient information and are typically stored in a relational database with multiple tables. Effective and efficient patient information retrieval from EMR data is a challenging task for medical experts. Question-to-SQL generation methods tackle this problem by first predicting the SQL query for a given question about a database, and then, executing the query on the database. However, most of the existing approaches have not been adapted to the healthcare domain due to a lack of healthcare Question-to-SQL dataset for learning models specific to this domain. In addition, wide use of the abbreviation of terminologies and possible typos in questions introduce additional challenges for accurately generating the corresponding SQL queries. In this paper, we tackle these challenges by developing a deep learning based TRanslate-Edit Model for Question-to-SQL (TREQS) generation, which adapts the widely used sequence-to-sequence model to directly generate the SQL query for a given question, and further performs the required edits using an attentive-copying mechanism and task-specific look-up tables. Based on the widely used publicly available electronic medical database, we create a new large-scale Question-SQL pair dataset, named MIMICSQL, in order to perform the Question-to-SQL generation task in healthcare domain. An extensive set of experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of our proposed model on MIMICSQL. Both quantitative and qualitative experimental results indicate the flexibility and efficiency of our proposed method in predicting condition values and its robustness to random questions with abbreviations and typos.
A selectional auto-encoder approach for document image binarization.Binarization plays a key role in the automatic information retrieval from document images. This process is usually performed in the first stages of documents analysis systems, and serves as a basis for subsequent steps. Hence it has to be robust in order to allow the full analysis workflow to be successful. Several methods for document image binarization have been proposed so far, most of which are based on hand-crafted image processing strategies. Recently, Convolutional Neural Networks have shown an amazing performance in many disparate duties related to computer vision. In this paper we discuss the use of convolutional auto-encoders devoted to learning an end-to-end map from an input image to its selectional output, in which activations indicate the likelihood of pixels to be either foreground or background. Once trained, documents can therefore be binarized by parsing them through the model and applying a threshold. This approach has proven to outperform existing binarization strategies in a number of document domains.
Yara Parser: A Fast and Accurate Dependency Parser.Dependency parsers are among the most crucial tools in natural language processing as they have many important applications in downstream tasks such as information retrieval, machine translation and knowledge acquisition. We introduce the Yara Parser, a fast and accurate open-source dependency parser based on the arc-eager algorithm and beam search. It achieves an unlabeled accuracy of 93.32 on the standard WSJ test set which ranks it among the top dependency parsers. At its fastest, Yara can parse about 4000 sentences per second when in greedy mode (1 beam). When optimizing for accuracy (using 64 beams and Brown cluster features), Yara can parse 45 sentences per second. The parser can be trained on any syntactic dependency treebank and different options are provided in order to make it more flexible and tunable for specific tasks. It is released with the Apache version 2.0 license and can be used for both commercial and academic purposes. The parser can be found at https://github.com/yahoo/YaraParser.
SCDV : Sparse Composite Document Vectors using soft clustering over   distributional representations.We present a feature vector formation technique for documents - Sparse Composite Document Vector (SCDV) - which overcomes several shortcomings of the current distributional paragraph vector representations that are widely used for text representation. In SCDV, word embedding's are clustered to capture multiple semantic contexts in which words occur. They are then chained together to form document topic-vectors that can express complex, multi-topic documents. Through extensive experiments on multi-class and multi-label classification tasks, we outperform the previous state-of-the-art method, NTSG (Liu et al., 2015a). We also show that SCDV embedding's perform well on heterogeneous tasks like Topic Coherence, context-sensitive Learning and Information Retrieval. Moreover, we achieve significant reduction in training and prediction times compared to other representation methods. SCDV achieves best of both worlds - better performance with lower time and space complexity.
Is BERT Really Robust? A Strong Baseline for Natural Language Attack on   Text Classification and Entailment.Machine learning algorithms are often vulnerable to adversarial examples that have imperceptible alterations from the original counterparts but can fool the state-of-the-art models. It is helpful to evaluate or even improve the robustness of these models by exposing the maliciously crafted adversarial examples. In this paper, we present TextFooler, a simple but strong baseline to generate natural adversarial text. By applying it to two fundamental natural language tasks, text classification and textual entailment, we successfully attacked three target models, including the powerful pre-trained BERT, and the widely used convolutional and recurrent neural networks. We demonstrate the advantages of this framework in three ways: (1) effective---it outperforms state-of-the-art attacks in terms of success rate and perturbation rate, (2) utility-preserving---it preserves semantic content and grammaticality, and remains correctly classified by humans, and (3) efficient---it generates adversarial text with computational complexity linear to the text length. *The code, pre-trained target models, and test examples are available at https://github.com/jind11/TextFooler.
Learning Natural Language Inference with LSTM.Natural language inference (NLI) is a fundamentally important task in natural language processing that has many applications. The recently released Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) corpus has made it possible to develop and evaluate learning-centered methods such as deep neural networks for natural language inference (NLI). In this paper, we propose a special long short-term memory (LSTM) architecture for NLI. Our model builds on top of a recently proposed neural attention model for NLI but is based on a significantly different idea. Instead of deriving sentence embeddings for the premise and the hypothesis to be used for classification, our solution uses a match-LSTM to perform word-by-word matching of the hypothesis with the premise. This LSTM is able to place more emphasis on important word-level matching results. In particular, we observe that this LSTM remembers important mismatches that are critical for predicting the contradiction or the neutral relationship label. On the SNLI corpus, our model achieves an accuracy of 86.1%, outperforming the state of the art.
Neural Semantic Encoders.We present a memory augmented neural network for natural language understanding: Neural Semantic Encoders. NSE is equipped with a novel memory update rule and has a variable sized encoding memory that evolves over time and maintains the understanding of input sequences through read}, compose and write operations. NSE can also access multiple and shared memories. In this paper, we demonstrated the effectiveness and the flexibility of NSE on five different natural language tasks: natural language inference, question answering, sentence classification, document sentiment analysis and machine translation where NSE achieved state-of-the-art performance when evaluated on publically available benchmarks. For example, our shared-memory model showed an encouraging result on neural machine translation, improving an attention-based baseline by approximately 1.0 BLEU.
Learning Natural Language Inference using Bidirectional LSTM model and   Inner-Attention.In this paper, we proposed a sentence encoding-based model for recognizing text entailment. In our approach, the encoding of sentence is a two-stage process. Firstly, average pooling was used over word-level bidirectional LSTM (biLSTM) to generate a first-stage sentence representation. Secondly, attention mechanism was employed to replace average pooling on the same sentence for better representations. Instead of using target sentence to attend words in source sentence, we utilized the sentence's first-stage representation to attend words appeared in itself, which is called "Inner-Attention" in our paper . Experiments conducted on Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) Corpus has proved the effectiveness of "Inner-Attention" mechanism. With less number of parameters, our model outperformed the existing best sentence encoding-based approach by a large margin.
ABCNN: Attention-Based Convolutional Neural Network for Modeling   Sentence Pairs.How to model a pair of sentences is a critical issue in many NLP tasks such as answer selection (AS), paraphrase identification (PI) and textual entailment (TE). Most prior work (i) deals with one individual task by fine-tuning a specific system; (ii) models each sentence's representation separately, rarely considering the impact of the other sentence; or (iii) relies fully on manually designed, task-specific linguistic features. This work presents a general Attention Based Convolutional Neural Network (ABCNN) for modeling a pair of sentences. We make three contributions. (i) ABCNN can be applied to a wide variety of tasks that require modeling of sentence pairs. (ii) We propose three attention schemes that integrate mutual influence between sentences into CNN; thus, the representation of each sentence takes into consideration its counterpart. These interdependent sentence pair representations are more powerful than isolated sentence representations. (iii) ABCNN achieves state-of-the-art performance on AS, PI and TE tasks.
Simple and Effective Text Matching with Richer Alignment Features.In this paper, we present a fast and strong neural approach for general purpose text matching applications. We explore what is sufficient to build a fast and well-performed text matching model and propose to keep three key features available for inter-sequence alignment: original point-wise features, previous aligned features, and contextual features while simplifying all the remaining components. We conduct experiments on four well-studied benchmark datasets across tasks of natural language inference, paraphrase identification and answer selection. The performance of our model is on par with the state-of-the-art on all datasets with much fewer parameters and the inference speed is at least 6 times faster compared with similarly performed ones.
CopyMTL: Copy Mechanism for Joint Extraction of Entities and Relations   with Multi-Task Learning.Joint extraction of entities and relations has received significant attention due to its potential of providing higher performance for both tasks. Among existing methods, CopyRE is effective and novel, which uses a sequence-to-sequence framework and copy mechanism to directly generate the relation triplets. However, it suffers from two fatal problems. The model is extremely weak at differing the head and tail entity, resulting in inaccurate entity extraction. It also cannot predict multi-token entities (e.g. \textit{Steven Jobs}). To address these problems, we give a detailed analysis of the reasons behind the inaccurate entity extraction problem, and then propose a simple but extremely effective model structure to solve this problem. In addition, we propose a multi-task learning framework equipped with copy mechanism, called CopyMTL, to allow the model to predict multi-token entities. Experiments reveal the problems of CopyRE and show that our model achieves significant improvement over the current state-of-the-art method by 9% in NYT and 16% in WebNLG (F1 score). Our code is available at https://github.com/WindChimeRan/CopyMTL
Joint Extraction of Entities and Relations Based on a Novel   Decomposition Strategy.Joint extraction of entities and relations aims to detect entity pairs along with their relations using a single model. Prior work typically solves this task in the extract-then-classify or unified labeling manner. However, these methods either suffer from the redundant entity pairs, or ignore the important inner structure in the process of extracting entities and relations. To address these limitations, in this paper, we first decompose the joint extraction task into two interrelated subtasks, namely HE extraction and TER extraction. The former subtask is to distinguish all head-entities that may be involved with target relations, and the latter is to identify corresponding tail-entities and relations for each extracted head-entity. Next, these two subtasks are further deconstructed into several sequence labeling problems based on our proposed span-based tagging scheme, which are conveniently solved by a hierarchical boundary tagger and a multi-span decoding algorithm. Owing to the reasonable decomposition strategy, our model can fully capture the semantic interdependency between different steps, as well as reduce noise from irrelevant entity pairs. Experimental results show that our method outperforms previous work by 5.2%, 5.9% and 21.5% (F1 score), achieving a new state-of-the-art on three public datasets
Improving Relation Extraction by Pre-trained Language Representations.Current state-of-the-art relation extraction methods typically rely on a set of lexical, syntactic, and semantic features, explicitly computed in a pre-processing step. Training feature extraction models requires additional annotated language resources, which severely restricts the applicability and portability of relation extraction to novel languages. Similarly, pre-processing introduces an additional source of error. To address these limitations, we introduce TRE, a Transformer for Relation Extraction, extending the OpenAI Generative Pre-trained Transformer [Radford et al., 2018]. Unlike previous relation extraction models, TRE uses pre-trained deep language representations instead of explicit linguistic features to inform the relation classification and combines it with the self-attentive Transformer architecture to effectively model long-range dependencies between entity mentions. TRE allows us to learn implicit linguistic features solely from plain text corpora by unsupervised pre-training, before fine-tuning the learned language representations on the relation extraction task. TRE obtains a new state-of-the-art result on the TACRED and SemEval 2010 Task 8 datasets, achieving a test F1 of 67.4 and 87.1, respectively. Furthermore, we observe a significant increase in sample efficiency. With only 20% of the training examples, TRE matches the performance of our baselines and our model trained from scratch on 100% of the TACRED dataset. We open-source our trained models, experiments, and source code.
Tackling Graphical NLP problems with Graph Recurrent Networks.How to properly model graphs is a long-existing and important problem in NLP area, where several popular types of graphs are knowledge graphs, semantic graphs and dependency graphs. Comparing with other data structures, such as sequences and trees, graphs are generally more powerful in representing complex correlations among entities. For example, a knowledge graph stores real-word entities (such as "Barack_Obama" and "U.S.") and their relations (such as "live_in" and "lead_by"). Properly encoding a knowledge graph is beneficial to user applications, such as question answering and knowledge discovery. Modeling graphs is also very challenging, probably because graphs usually contain massive and cyclic relations.   Recent years have witnessed the success of deep learning, especially RNN-based models, on many NLP problems. Besides, RNNs and their variations have been extensively studied on several graph problems and showed preliminary successes. Despite the successes that have been achieved, RNN-based models suffer from several major drawbacks on graphs. First, they can only consume sequential data, thus linearization is required to serialize input graphs, resulting in the loss of important structural information. Second, the serialization results are usually very long, so it takes a long time for RNNs to encode them.   In this thesis, we propose a novel graph neural network, named graph recurrent network (GRN). We study our GRN model on 4 very different tasks, such as machine reading comprehension, relation extraction and machine translation. Some take undirected graphs without edge labels, while the others have directed ones with edge labels. To consider these important differences, we gradually enhance our GRN model, such as further considering edge labels and adding an RNN decoder. Carefully designed experiments show the effectiveness of GRN on all these tasks.
N-ary Relation Extraction using Graph State LSTM.Cross-sentence $n$-ary relation extraction detects relations among $n$ entities across multiple sentences. Typical methods formulate an input as a \textit{document graph}, integrating various intra-sentential and inter-sentential dependencies. The current state-of-the-art method splits the input graph into two DAGs, adopting a DAG-structured LSTM for each. Though being able to model rich linguistic knowledge by leveraging graph edges, important information can be lost in the splitting procedure. We propose a graph-state LSTM model, which uses a parallel state to model each word, recurrently enriching state values via message passing. Compared with DAG LSTMs, our graph LSTM keeps the original graph structure, and speeds up computation by allowing more parallelization. On a standard benchmark, our model shows the best result in the literature.
Connecting the Dots: Document-level Neural Relation Extraction with   Edge-oriented Graphs.Document-level relation extraction is a complex human process that requires logical inference to extract relationships between named entities in text. Existing approaches use graph-based neural models with words as nodes and edges as relations between them, to encode relations across sentences. These models are node-based, i.e., they form pair representations based solely on the two target node representations. However, entity relations can be better expressed through unique edge representations formed as paths between nodes. We thus propose an edge-oriented graph neural model for document-level relation extraction. The model utilises different types of nodes and edges to create a document-level graph. An inference mechanism on the graph edges enables to learn intra- and inter-sentence relations using multi-instance learning internally. Experiments on two document-level biomedical datasets for chemical-disease and gene-disease associations show the usefulness of the proposed edge-oriented approach.
A General Framework for Information Extraction using Dynamic Span Graphs.We introduce a general framework for several information extraction tasks that share span representations using dynamically constructed span graphs. The graphs are constructed by selecting the most confident entity spans and linking these nodes with confidence-weighted relation types and coreferences. The dynamic span graph allows coreference and relation type confidences to propagate through the graph to iteratively refine the span representations. This is unlike previous multi-task frameworks for information extraction in which the only interaction between tasks is in the shared first-layer LSTM. Our framework significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art on multiple information extraction tasks across multiple datasets reflecting different domains. We further observe that the span enumeration approach is good at detecting nested span entities, with significant F1 score improvement on the ACE dataset.
Question Answering on Freebase via Relation Extraction and Textual   Evidence.Existing knowledge-based question answering systems often rely on small annotated training data. While shallow methods like relation extraction are robust to data scarcity, they are less expressive than the deep meaning representation methods like semantic parsing, thereby failing at answering questions involving multiple constraints. Here we alleviate this problem by empowering a relation extraction method with additional evidence from Wikipedia. We first present a neural network based relation extractor to retrieve the candidate answers from Freebase, and then infer over Wikipedia to validate these answers. Experiments on the WebQuestions question answering dataset show that our method achieves an F_1 of 53.3%, a substantial improvement over the state-of-the-art.
CoQA: A Conversational Question Answering Challenge.Humans gather information by engaging in conversations involving a series of interconnected questions and answers. For machines to assist in information gathering, it is therefore essential to enable them to answer conversational questions. We introduce CoQA, a novel dataset for building Conversational Question Answering systems. Our dataset contains 127k questions with answers, obtained from 8k conversations about text passages from seven diverse domains. The questions are conversational, and the answers are free-form text with their corresponding evidence highlighted in the passage. We analyze CoQA in depth and show that conversational questions have challenging phenomena not present in existing reading comprehension datasets, e.g., coreference and pragmatic reasoning. We evaluate strong conversational and reading comprehension models on CoQA. The best system obtains an F1 score of 65.4%, which is 23.4 points behind human performance (88.8%), indicating there is ample room for improvement. We launch CoQA as a challenge to the community at http://stanfordnlp.github.io/coqa/
Hierarchical Attention: What Really Counts in Various NLP Tasks.Attention mechanisms in sequence to sequence models have shown great ability and wonderful performance in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as sentence embedding, text generation, machine translation, machine reading comprehension, etc. Unfortunately, existing attention mechanisms only learn either high-level or low-level features. In this paper, we think that the lack of hierarchical mechanisms is a bottleneck in improving the performance of the attention mechanisms, and propose a novel Hierarchical Attention Mechanism (Ham) based on the weighted sum of different layers of a multi-level attention. Ham achieves a state-of-the-art BLEU score of 0.26 on Chinese poem generation task and a nearly 6.5% averaged improvement compared with the existing machine reading comprehension models such as BIDAF and Match-LSTM. Furthermore, our experiments and theorems reveal that Ham has greater generalization and representation ability than existing attention mechanisms.
Universal Adversarial Triggers for Attacking and Analyzing NLP.Adversarial examples highlight model vulnerabilities and are useful for evaluation and interpretation. We define universal adversarial triggers: input-agnostic sequences of tokens that trigger a model to produce a specific prediction when concatenated to any input from a dataset. We propose a gradient-guided search over tokens which finds short trigger sequences (e.g., one word for classification and four words for language modeling) that successfully trigger the target prediction. For example, triggers cause SNLI entailment accuracy to drop from 89.94% to 0.55%, 72% of "why" questions in SQuAD to be answered "to kill american people", and the GPT-2 language model to spew racist output even when conditioned on non-racial contexts. Furthermore, although the triggers are optimized using white-box access to a specific model, they transfer to other models for all tasks we consider. Finally, since triggers are input-agnostic, they provide an analysis of global model behavior. For instance, they confirm that SNLI models exploit dataset biases and help to diagnose heuristics learned by reading comprehension models.
SDNet: Contextualized Attention-based Deep Network for Conversational   Question Answering.Conversational question answering (CQA) is a novel QA task that requires understanding of dialogue context. Different from traditional single-turn machine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks, CQA includes passage comprehension, coreference resolution, and contextual understanding. In this paper, we propose an innovated contextualized attention-based deep neural network, SDNet, to fuse context into traditional MRC models. Our model leverages both inter-attention and self-attention to comprehend conversation context and extract relevant information from passage. Furthermore, we demonstrated a novel method to integrate the latest BERT contextual model. Empirical results show the effectiveness of our model, which sets the new state of the art result in CoQA leaderboard, outperforming the previous best model by 1.6% F1. Our ensemble model further improves the result by 2.7% F1.
Stochastic Answer Networks for SQuAD 2.0.This paper presents an extension of the Stochastic Answer Network (SAN), one of the state-of-the-art machine reading comprehension models, to be able to judge whether a question is unanswerable or not. The extended SAN contains two components: a span detector and a binary classifier for judging whether the question is unanswerable, and both components are jointly optimized. Experiments show that SAN achieves the results competitive to the state-of-the-art on Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) 2.0. To facilitate the research on this field, we release our code: https://github.com/kevinduh/san_mrc.
Positional Encoding to Control Output Sequence Length.Neural encoder-decoder models have been successful in natural language generation tasks. However, real applications of abstractive summarization must consider additional constraint that a generated summary should not exceed a desired length. In this paper, we propose a simple but effective extension of a sinusoidal positional encoding (Vaswani et al., 2017) to enable neural encoder-decoder model to preserves the length constraint. Unlike in previous studies where that learn embeddings representing each length, the proposed method can generate a text of any length even if the target length is not present in training data. The experimental results show that the proposed method can not only control the generation length but also improve the ROUGE scores.
Automatic Text Summarization of COVID-19 Medical Research Articles using   BERT and GPT-2.With the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a growing urgency for medical community to keep up with the accelerating growth in the new coronavirus-related literature. As a result, the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset Challenge has released a corpus of scholarly articles and is calling for machine learning approaches to help bridging the gap between the researchers and the rapidly growing publications. Here, we take advantage of the recent advances in pre-trained NLP models, BERT and OpenAI GPT-2, to solve this challenge by performing text summarization on this dataset. We evaluate the results using ROUGE scores and visual inspection. Our model provides abstractive and comprehensive information based on keywords extracted from the original articles. Our work can help the the medical community, by providing succinct summaries of articles for which the abstract are not already available.
Controlling Output Length in Neural Encoder-Decoders.Neural encoder-decoder models have shown great success in many sequence generation tasks. However, previous work has not investigated situations in which we would like to control the length of encoder-decoder outputs. This capability is crucial for applications such as text summarization, in which we have to generate concise summaries with a desired length. In this paper, we propose methods for controlling the output sequence length for neural encoder-decoder models: two decoding-based methods and two learning-based methods. Results show that our learning-based methods have the capability to control length without degrading summary quality in a summarization task.
Screenplay Summarization Using Latent Narrative Structure.Most general-purpose extractive summarization models are trained on news articles, which are short and present all important information upfront. As a result, such models are biased on position and often perform a smart selection of sentences from the beginning of the document. When summarizing long narratives, which have complex structure and present information piecemeal, simple position heuristics are not sufficient. In this paper, we propose to explicitly incorporate the underlying structure of narratives into general unsupervised and supervised extractive summarization models. We formalize narrative structure in terms of key narrative events (turning points) and treat it as latent in order to summarize screenplays (i.e., extract an optimal sequence of scenes). Experimental results on the CSI corpus of TV screenplays, which we augment with scene-level summarization labels, show that latent turning points correlate with important aspects of a CSI episode and improve summarization performance over general extractive algorithms leading to more complete and diverse summaries.
Iterative Document Representation Learning Towards Summarization with   Polishing.In this paper, we introduce Iterative Text Summarization (ITS), an iteration-based model for supervised extractive text summarization, inspired by the observation that it is often necessary for a human to read an article multiple times in order to fully understand and summarize its contents. Current summarization approaches read through a document only once to generate a document representation, resulting in a sub-optimal representation. To address this issue we introduce a model which iteratively polishes the document representation on many passes through the document. As part of our model, we also introduce a selective reading mechanism that decides more accurately the extent to which each sentence in the model should be updated. Experimental results on the CNN/DailyMail and DUC2002 datasets demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art extractive systems when evaluated by machines and by humans.
IndoSum: A New Benchmark Dataset for Indonesian Text Summarization.Automatic text summarization is generally considered as a challenging task in the NLP community. One of the challenges is the publicly available and large dataset that is relatively rare and difficult to construct. The problem is even worse for low-resource languages such as Indonesian. In this paper, we present IndoSum, a new benchmark dataset for Indonesian text summarization. The dataset consists of news articles and manually constructed summaries. Notably, the dataset is almost 200x larger than the previous Indonesian summarization dataset of the same domain. We evaluated various extractive summarization approaches and obtained encouraging results which demonstrate the usefulness of the dataset and provide baselines for future research. The code and the dataset are available online under permissive licenses.
A Hierarchical Network for Abstractive Meeting Summarization with   Cross-Domain Pretraining.With the abundance of automatic meeting transcripts, meeting summarization is of great interest to both participants and other parties. Traditional methods of summarizing meetings depend on complex multi-step pipelines that make joint optimization intractable. Meanwhile, there are a handful of deep neural models for text summarization and dialogue systems. However, the semantic structure and styles of meeting transcripts are quite different from articles and conversations. In this paper, we propose a novel abstractive summary network that adapts to the meeting scenario. We design a hierarchical structure to accommodate long meeting transcripts and a role vector to depict the difference among speakers. Furthermore, due to the inadequacy of meeting summary data, we pretrain the model on large-scale news summary data. Empirical results show that our model outperforms previous approaches in both automatic metrics and human evaluation. For example, on ICSI dataset, the ROUGE-1 score increases from 34.66% to 46.28%.
Rethinking Generalization of Neural Models: A Named Entity Recognition   Case Study.While neural network-based models have achieved impressive performance on a large body of NLP tasks, the generalization behavior of different models remains poorly understood: Does this excellent performance imply a perfect generalization model, or are there still some limitations? In this paper, we take the NER task as a testbed to analyze the generalization behavior of existing models from different perspectives and characterize the differences of their generalization abilities through the lens of our proposed measures, which guides us to better design models and training methods. Experiments with in-depth analyses diagnose the bottleneck of existing neural NER models in terms of breakdown performance analysis, annotation errors, dataset bias, and category relationships, which suggest directions for improvement. We have released the datasets: (ReCoNLL, PLONER) for the future research at our project page: http://pfliu.com/InterpretNER/. As a by-product of this paper, we have open-sourced a project that involves a comprehensive summary of recent NER papers and classifies them into different research topics: https://github.com/pfliu-nlp/Named-Entity-Recognition-NER-Papers.
Hybrid semi-Markov CRF for Neural Sequence Labeling.This paper proposes hybrid semi-Markov conditional random fields (SCRFs) for neural sequence labeling in natural language processing. Based on conventional conditional random fields (CRFs), SCRFs have been designed for the tasks of assigning labels to segments by extracting features from and describing transitions between segments instead of words. In this paper, we improve the existing SCRF methods by employing word-level and segment-level information simultaneously. First, word-level labels are utilized to derive the segment scores in SCRFs. Second, a CRF output layer and an SCRF output layer are integrated into an unified neural network and trained jointly. Experimental results on CoNLL 2003 named entity recognition (NER) shared task show that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance when no external knowledge is used.
Baseline Needs More Love: On Simple Word-Embedding-Based Models and   Associated Pooling Mechanisms.Many deep learning architectures have been proposed to model the compositionality in text sequences, requiring a substantial number of parameters and expensive computations. However, there has not been a rigorous evaluation regarding the added value of sophisticated compositional functions. In this paper, we conduct a point-by-point comparative study between Simple Word-Embedding-based Models (SWEMs), consisting of parameter-free pooling operations, relative to word-embedding-based RNN/CNN models. Surprisingly, SWEMs exhibit comparable or even superior performance in the majority of cases considered. Based upon this understanding, we propose two additional pooling strategies over learned word embeddings: (i) a max-pooling operation for improved interpretability; and (ii) a hierarchical pooling operation, which preserves spatial (n-gram) information within text sequences. We present experiments on 17 datasets encompassing three tasks: (i) (long) document classification; (ii) text sequence matching; and (iii) short text tasks, including classification and tagging. The source code and datasets can be obtained from https:// github.com/dinghanshen/SWEM.
Semi-supervised Multitask Learning for Sequence Labeling.We propose a sequence labeling framework with a secondary training objective, learning to predict surrounding words for every word in the dataset. This language modeling objective incentivises the system to learn general-purpose patterns of semantic and syntactic composition, which are also useful for improving accuracy on different sequence labeling tasks. The architecture was evaluated on a range of datasets, covering the tasks of error detection in learner texts, named entity recognition, chunking and POS-tagging. The novel language modeling objective provided consistent performance improvements on every benchmark, without requiring any additional annotated or unannotated data.
An Empirical Study of Multi-Task Learning on BERT for Biomedical Text   Mining.Multi-task learning (MTL) has achieved remarkable success in natural language processing applications. In this work, we study a multi-task learning model with multiple decoders on varieties of biomedical and clinical natural language processing tasks such as text similarity, relation extraction, named entity recognition, and text inference. Our empirical results demonstrate that the MTL fine-tuned models outperform state-of-the-art transformer models (e.g., BERT and its variants) by 2.0% and 1.3% in biomedical and clinical domains, respectively. Pairwise MTL further demonstrates more details about which tasks can improve or decrease others. This is particularly helpful in the context that researchers are in the hassle of choosing a suitable model for new problems. The code and models are publicly available at https://github.com/ncbi-nlp/bluebert
Computationally Efficient NER Taggers with Combined Embeddings and   Constrained Decoding.Current State-of-the-Art models in Named Entity Recognition (NER) are neural models with a Conditional Random Field (CRF) as the final network layer, and pre-trained "contextual embeddings". The CRF layer is used to facilitate global coherence between labels, and the contextual embeddings provide a better representation of words in context. However, both of these improvements come at a high computational cost. In this work, we explore two simple techniques that substantially improve NER performance over a strong baseline with negligible cost. First, we use multiple pre-trained embeddings as word representations via concatenation. Second, we constrain the tagger, trained using a cross-entropy loss, during decoding to eliminate illegal transitions. While training a tagger on CoNLL 2003 we find a $786$\% speed-up over a contextual embeddings-based tagger without sacrificing strong performance. We also show that the concatenation technique works across multiple tasks and datasets. We analyze aspects of similarity and coverage between pre-trained embeddings and the dynamics of tag co-occurrence to explain why these techniques work. We provide an open source implementation of our tagger using these techniques in three popular deep learning frameworks --- TensorFlow, Pytorch, and DyNet.
Learning Neural Templates for Text Generation.While neural, encoder-decoder models have had significant empirical success in text generation, there remain several unaddressed problems with this style of generation. Encoder-decoder models are largely (a) uninterpretable, and (b) difficult to control in terms of their phrasing or content. This work proposes a neural generation system using a hidden semi-markov model (HSMM) decoder, which learns latent, discrete templates jointly with learning to generate. We show that this model learns useful templates, and that these templates make generation both more interpretable and controllable. Furthermore, we show that this approach scales to real data sets and achieves strong performance nearing that of encoder-decoder text generation models.
GLGE: A New General Language Generation Evaluation Benchmark.Multi-task benchmarks such as GLUE and SuperGLUE have driven great progress of pretraining and transfer learning in Natural Language Processing (NLP). These benchmarks mostly focus on a range of Natural Language Understanding (NLU) tasks, without considering the Natural Language Generation (NLG) models. In this paper, we present the General Language Generation Evaluation (GLGE), a new multi-task benchmark for evaluating the generalization capabilities of NLG models across eight language generation tasks. For each task, we continue to design three subtasks in terms of task difficulty (GLGE-Easy, GLGE-Medium, and GLGE-Hard). This introduces 24 subtasks to comprehensively compare model performance. To encourage research on pretraining and transfer learning on NLG models, we make GLGE publicly available and build a leaderboard with strong baselines including MASS, BART, and ProphetNet\footnote{The source code and dataset will be publicly available at https://github.com/microsoft/glge.
Unified Vision-Language Pre-Training for Image Captioning and VQA.This paper presents a unified Vision-Language Pre-training (VLP) model. The model is unified in that (1) it can be fine-tuned for either vision-language generation (e.g., image captioning) or understanding (e.g., visual question answering) tasks, and (2) it uses a shared multi-layer transformer network for both encoding and decoding, which differs from many existing methods where the encoder and decoder are implemented using separate models. The unified VLP model is pre-trained on a large amount of image-text pairs using the unsupervised learning objectives of two tasks: bidirectional and sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) masked vision-language prediction. The two tasks differ solely in what context the prediction conditions on. This is controlled by utilizing specific self-attention masks for the shared transformer network. To the best of our knowledge, VLP is the first reported model that achieves state-of-the-art results on both vision-language generation and understanding tasks, as disparate as image captioning and visual question answering, across three challenging benchmark datasets: COCO Captions, Flickr30k Captions, and VQA 2.0. The code and the pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/LuoweiZhou/VLP.
Neural Text Generation with Unlikelihood Training.Neural text generation is a key tool in natural language applications, but it is well known there are major problems at its core. In particular, standard likelihood training and decoding leads to dull and repetitive outputs. While some post-hoc fixes have been proposed, in particular top-$k$ and nucleus sampling, they do not address the fact that the token-level probabilities predicted by the model are poor. In this paper we show that the likelihood objective itself is at fault, resulting in a model that assigns too much probability to sequences containing repeats and frequent words, unlike those from the human training distribution. We propose a new objective, unlikelihood training, which forces unlikely generations to be assigned lower probability by the model. We show that both token and sequence level unlikelihood training give less repetitive, less dull text while maintaining perplexity, giving superior generations using standard greedy or beam search. According to human evaluations, our approach with standard beam search also outperforms the currently popular decoding methods of nucleus sampling or beam blocking, thus providing a strong alternative to existing techniques.
A Hybrid Convolutional Variational Autoencoder for Text Generation.In this paper we explore the effect of architectural choices on learning a Variational Autoencoder (VAE) for text generation. In contrast to the previously introduced VAE model for text where both the encoder and decoder are RNNs, we propose a novel hybrid architecture that blends fully feed-forward convolutional and deconvolutional components with a recurrent language model. Our architecture exhibits several attractive properties such as faster run time and convergence, ability to better handle long sequences and, more importantly, it helps to avoid some of the major difficulties posed by training VAE models on textual data.
Findings of the E2E NLG Challenge.This paper summarises the experimental setup and results of the first shared task on end-to-end (E2E) natural language generation (NLG) in spoken dialogue systems. Recent end-to-end generation systems are promising since they reduce the need for data annotation. However, they are currently limited to small, delexicalised datasets. The E2E NLG shared task aims to assess whether these novel approaches can generate better-quality output by learning from a dataset containing higher lexical richness, syntactic complexity and diverse discourse phenomena. We compare 62 systems submitted by 17 institutions, covering a wide range of approaches, including machine learning architectures -- with the majority implementing sequence-to-sequence models (seq2seq) -- as well as systems based on grammatical rules and templates.
The E2E Dataset: New Challenges For End-to-End Generation.This paper describes the E2E data, a new dataset for training end-to-end, data-driven natural language generation systems in the restaurant domain, which is ten times bigger than existing, frequently used datasets in this area. The E2E dataset poses new challenges: (1) its human reference texts show more lexical richness and syntactic variation, including discourse phenomena; (2) generating from this set requires content selection. As such, learning from this dataset promises more natural, varied and less template-like system utterances. We also establish a baseline on this dataset, which illustrates some of the difficulties associated with this data.
Towards Good Practices for Very Deep Two-Stream ConvNets.Deep convolutional networks have achieved great success for object recognition in still images. However, for action recognition in videos, the improvement of deep convolutional networks is not so evident. We argue that there are two reasons that could probably explain this result. First the current network architectures (e.g. Two-stream ConvNets) are relatively shallow compared with those very deep models in image domain (e.g. VGGNet, GoogLeNet), and therefore their modeling capacity is constrained by their depth. Second, probably more importantly, the training dataset of action recognition is extremely small compared with the ImageNet dataset, and thus it will be easy to over-fit on the training dataset.   To address these issues, this report presents very deep two-stream ConvNets for action recognition, by adapting recent very deep architectures into video domain. However, this extension is not easy as the size of action recognition is quite small. We design several good practices for the training of very deep two-stream ConvNets, namely (i) pre-training for both spatial and temporal nets, (ii) smaller learning rates, (iii) more data augmentation techniques, (iv) high drop out ratio. Meanwhile, we extend the Caffe toolbox into Multi-GPU implementation with high computational efficiency and low memory consumption. We verify the performance of very deep two-stream ConvNets on the dataset of UCF101 and it achieves the recognition accuracy of $91.4\%$.
Robust Retinal Vessel Segmentation from a Data Augmentation Perspective.Retinal vessel segmentation is a fundamental step in screening, diagnosis, and treatment of various cardiovascular and ophthalmic diseases. Robustness is one of the most critical requirements for practical utilization, since the test images may be captured using different fundus cameras, or be affected by various pathological changes. We investigate this problem from a data augmentation perspective, with the merits of no additional training data or inference time. In this paper, we propose two new data augmentation modules, namely, channel-wise random Gamma correction and channel-wise random vessel augmentation. Given a training color fundus image, the former applies random gamma correction on each color channel of the entire image, while the latter intentionally enhances or decreases only the fine-grained blood vessel regions using morphological transformations. With the additional training samples generated by applying these two modules sequentially, a model could learn more invariant and discriminating features against both global and local disturbances. Experimental results on both real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our method can improve the performance and robustness of a classic convolutional neural network architecture. Source codes are available https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/Research/tree/master/CV/robust_vessel_segmentation
Understanding tables with intermediate pre-training.Table entailment, the binary classification task of finding if a sentence is supported or refuted by the content of a table, requires parsing language and table structure as well as numerical and discrete reasoning. While there is extensive work on textual entailment, table entailment is less well studied. We adapt TAPAS (Herzig et al., 2020), a table-based BERT model, to recognize entailment. Motivated by the benefits of data augmentation, we create a balanced dataset of millions of automatically created training examples which are learned in an intermediate step prior to fine-tuning. This new data is not only useful for table entailment, but also for SQA (Iyyer et al., 2017), a sequential table QA task. To be able to use long examples as input of BERT models, we evaluate table pruning techniques as a pre-processing step to drastically improve the training and prediction efficiency at a moderate drop in accuracy. The different methods set the new state-of-the-art on the TabFact (Chen et al., 2020) and SQA datasets.
BOP Challenge 2020 on 6D Object Localization.This paper presents the evaluation methodology, datasets, and results of the BOP Challenge 2020, the third in a series of public competitions organized with the goal to capture the status quo in the field of 6D object pose estimation from an RGB-D image. In 2020, to reduce the domain gap between synthetic training and real test RGB images, the participants were provided 350K photorealistic training images generated by BlenderProc4BOP, a new open-source and light-weight physically-based renderer (PBR) and procedural data generator. Methods based on deep neural networks have finally caught up with methods based on point pair features, which were dominating previous editions of the challenge. Although the top-performing methods rely on RGB-D image channels, strong results were achieved when only RGB channels were used at both training and test time - out of the 26 evaluated methods, the third method was trained on RGB channels of PBR and real images, while the fifth on RGB channels of PBR images only. Strong data augmentation was identified as a key component of the top-performing CosyPose method, and the photorealism of PBR images was demonstrated effective despite the augmentation. The online evaluation system stays open and is available on the project website: bop.felk.cvut.cz.
VEGA: Towards an End-to-End Configurable AutoML Pipeline.Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) is an important industrial solution for automatic discovery and deployment of the machine learning models. However, designing an integrated AutoML system faces four great challenges of configurability, scalability, integrability, and platform diversity. In this work, we present VEGA, an efficient and comprehensive AutoML framework that is compatible and optimized for multiple hardware platforms. a) The VEGA pipeline integrates various modules of AutoML, including Neural Architecture Search (NAS), Hyperparameter Optimization (HPO), Auto Data Augmentation, Model Compression, and Fully Train. b) To support a variety of search algorithms and tasks, we design a novel fine-grained search space and its description language to enable easy adaptation to different search algorithms and tasks. c) We abstract the common components of deep learning frameworks into a unified interface. VEGA can be executed with multiple back-ends and hardwares. Extensive benchmark experiments on multiple tasks demonstrate that VEGA can improve the existing AutoML algorithms and discover new high-performance models against SOTA methods, e.g. the searched DNet model zoo for Ascend 10x faster than EfficientNet-B5 and 9.2x faster than RegNetX-32GF on ImageNet. VEGA is open-sourced at https://github.com/huawei-noah/vega.
An Asymptotically Optimal Multi-Armed Bandit Algorithm and   Hyperparameter Optimization.The evaluation of hyperparameters, neural architectures, or data augmentation policies becomes a critical model selection problem in advanced deep learning with a large hyperparameter search space. In this paper, we propose an efficient and robust bandit-based algorithm called Sub-Sampling (SS) in the scenario of hyperparameter search evaluation. It evaluates the potential of hyperparameters by the sub-samples of observations and is theoretically proved to be optimal under the criterion of cumulative regret. We further combine SS with Bayesian Optimization and develop a novel hyperparameter optimization algorithm called BOSS. Empirical studies validate our theoretical arguments of SS and demonstrate the superior performance of BOSS on a number of applications, including Neural Architecture Search (NAS), Data Augmentation (DA), Object Detection (OD), and Reinforcement Learning (RL).
SpanBERT: Improving Pre-training by Representing and Predicting Spans.We present SpanBERT, a pre-training method that is designed to better represent and predict spans of text. Our approach extends BERT by (1) masking contiguous random spans, rather than random tokens, and (2) training the span boundary representations to predict the entire content of the masked span, without relying on the individual token representations within it. SpanBERT consistently outperforms BERT and our better-tuned baselines, with substantial gains on span selection tasks such as question answering and coreference resolution. In particular, with the same training data and model size as BERT-large, our single model obtains 94.6% and 88.7% F1 on SQuAD 1.1 and 2.0, respectively. We also achieve a new state of the art on the OntoNotes coreference resolution task (79.6\% F1), strong performance on the TACRED relation extraction benchmark, and even show gains on GLUE.
Sliced Recurrent Neural Networks.Recurrent neural networks have achieved great success in many NLP tasks. However, they have difficulty in parallelization because of the recurrent structure, so it takes much time to train RNNs. In this paper, we introduce sliced recurrent neural networks (SRNNs), which could be parallelized by slicing the sequences into many subsequences. SRNNs have the ability to obtain high-level information through multiple layers with few extra parameters. We prove that the standard RNN is a special case of the SRNN when we use linear activation functions. Without changing the recurrent units, SRNNs are 136 times as fast as standard RNNs and could be even faster when we train longer sequences. Experiments on six largescale sentiment analysis datasets show that SRNNs achieve better performance than standard RNNs.
Learned in Translation: Contextualized Word Vectors.Computer vision has benefited from initializing multiple deep layers with weights pretrained on large supervised training sets like ImageNet. Natural language processing (NLP) typically sees initialization of only the lowest layer of deep models with pretrained word vectors. In this paper, we use a deep LSTM encoder from an attentional sequence-to-sequence model trained for machine translation (MT) to contextualize word vectors. We show that adding these context vectors (CoVe) improves performance over using only unsupervised word and character vectors on a wide variety of common NLP tasks: sentiment analysis (SST, IMDb), question classification (TREC), entailment (SNLI), and question answering (SQuAD). For fine-grained sentiment analysis and entailment, CoVe improves performance of our baseline models to the state of the art.
Words Can Shift: Dynamically Adjusting Word Representations Using   Nonverbal Behaviors.Humans convey their intentions through the usage of both verbal and nonverbal behaviors during face-to-face communication. Speaker intentions often vary dynamically depending on different nonverbal contexts, such as vocal patterns and facial expressions. As a result, when modeling human language, it is essential to not only consider the literal meaning of the words but also the nonverbal contexts in which these words appear. To better model human language, we first model expressive nonverbal representations by analyzing the fine-grained visual and acoustic patterns that occur during word segments. In addition, we seek to capture the dynamic nature of nonverbal intents by shifting word representations based on the accompanying nonverbal behaviors. To this end, we propose the Recurrent Attended Variation Embedding Network (RAVEN) that models the fine-grained structure of nonverbal subword sequences and dynamically shifts word representations based on nonverbal cues. Our proposed model achieves competitive performance on two publicly available datasets for multimodal sentiment analysis and emotion recognition. We also visualize the shifted word representations in different nonverbal contexts and summarize common patterns regarding multimodal variations of word representations.
FinBERT: Financial Sentiment Analysis with Pre-trained Language Models.Financial sentiment analysis is a challenging task due to the specialized language and lack of labeled data in that domain. General-purpose models are not effective enough because of the specialized language used in a financial context. We hypothesize that pre-trained language models can help with this problem because they require fewer labeled examples and they can be further trained on domain-specific corpora. We introduce FinBERT, a language model based on BERT, to tackle NLP tasks in the financial domain. Our results show improvement in every measured metric on current state-of-the-art results for two financial sentiment analysis datasets. We find that even with a smaller training set and fine-tuning only a part of the model, FinBERT outperforms state-of-the-art machine learning methods.
textTOvec: Deep Contextualized Neural Autoregressive Topic Models of   Language with Distributed Compositional Prior.We address two challenges of probabilistic topic modelling in order to better estimate the probability of a word in a given context, i.e., P(word|context): (1) No Language Structure in Context: Probabilistic topic models ignore word order by summarizing a given context as a "bag-of-word" and consequently the semantics of words in the context is lost. The LSTM-LM learns a vector-space representation of each word by accounting for word order in local collocation patterns and models complex characteristics of language (e.g., syntax and semantics), while the TM simultaneously learns a latent representation from the entire document and discovers the underlying thematic structure. We unite two complementary paradigms of learning the meaning of word occurrences by combining a TM (e.g., DocNADE) and a LM in a unified probabilistic framework, named as ctx-DocNADE. (2) Limited Context and/or Smaller training corpus of documents: In settings with a small number of word occurrences (i.e., lack of context) in short text or data sparsity in a corpus of few documents, the application of TMs is challenging. We address this challenge by incorporating external knowledge into neural autoregressive topic models via a language modelling approach: we use word embeddings as input of a LSTM-LM with the aim to improve the word-topic mapping on a smaller and/or short-text corpus. The proposed DocNADE extension is named as ctx-DocNADEe.   We present novel neural autoregressive topic model variants coupled with neural LMs and embeddings priors that consistently outperform state-of-the-art generative TMs in terms of generalization (perplexity), interpretability (topic coherence) and applicability (retrieval and classification) over 6 long-text and 8 short-text datasets from diverse domains.
Topic Modeling based on Keywords and Context.Current topic models often suffer from discovering topics not matching human intuition, unnatural switching of topics within documents and high computational demands. We address these concerns by proposing a topic model and an inference algorithm based on automatically identifying characteristic keywords for topics. Keywords influence topic-assignments of nearby words. Our algorithm learns (key)word-topic scores and it self-regulates the number of topics. Inference is simple and easily parallelizable. Qualitative analysis yields comparable results to state-of-the-art models (eg. LDA), but with different strengths and weaknesses. Quantitative analysis using 9 datasets shows gains in terms of classification accuracy, PMI score, computational performance and consistency of topic assignments within documents, while most often using less topics.
Hierarchical Topic Mining via Joint Spherical Tree and Text Embedding.Mining a set of meaningful topics organized into a hierarchy is intuitively appealing since topic correlations are ubiquitous in massive text corpora. To account for potential hierarchical topic structures, hierarchical topic models generalize flat topic models by incorporating latent topic hierarchies into their generative modeling process. However, due to their purely unsupervised nature, the learned topic hierarchy often deviates from users' particular needs or interests. To guide the hierarchical topic discovery process with minimal user supervision, we propose a new task, Hierarchical Topic Mining, which takes a category tree described by category names only, and aims to mine a set of representative terms for each category from a text corpus to help a user comprehend his/her interested topics. We develop a novel joint tree and text embedding method along with a principled optimization procedure that allows simultaneous modeling of the category tree structure and the corpus generative process in the spherical space for effective category-representative term discovery. Our comprehensive experiments show that our model, named JoSH, mines a high-quality set of hierarchical topics with high efficiency and benefits weakly-supervised hierarchical text classification tasks.
TopicModel4J: A Java Package for Topic Models.Topic models provide a flexible and principled framework for exploring hidden structure in high-dimensional co-occurrence data and are commonly used natural language processing (NLP) of text. In this paper, we design and implement a Java package, TopicModel4J, which contains 13 kinds of representative algorithms for fitting topic models. The TopicModel4J in the Java programming environment provides an easy-to-use interface for data analysts to run the algorithms, and allow to easily input and output data. In addition, this package provides a few unstructured text preprocessing techniques, such as splitting textual data into words, lowercasing the words, preforming lemmatization and removing the useless characters, URLs and stop words.
Learning document embeddings along with their uncertainties.Majority of the text modelling techniques yield only point-estimates of document embeddings and lack in capturing the uncertainty of the estimates. These uncertainties give a notion of how well the embeddings represent a document. We present Bayesian subspace multinomial model (Bayesian SMM), a generative log-linear model that learns to represent documents in the form of Gaussian distributions, thereby encoding the uncertainty in its co-variance. Additionally, in the proposed Bayesian SMM, we address a commonly encountered problem of intractability that appears during variational inference in mixed-logit models. We also present a generative Gaussian linear classifier for topic identification that exploits the uncertainty in document embeddings. Our intrinsic evaluation using perplexity measure shows that the proposed Bayesian SMM fits the data better as compared to the state-of-the-art neural variational document model on Fisher speech and 20Newsgroups text corpora. Our topic identification experiments show that the proposed systems are robust to over-fitting on unseen test data. The topic ID results show that the proposed model is outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised topic models and achieve comparable results to the state-of-the-art fully supervised discriminative models.
Microblog Hashtag Generation via Encoding Conversation Contexts.Automatic hashtag annotation plays an important role in content understanding for microblog posts. To date, progress made in this field has been restricted to phrase selection from limited candidates, or word-level hashtag discovery using topic models. Different from previous work considering hashtags to be inseparable, our work is the first effort to annotate hashtags with a novel sequence generation framework via viewing the hashtag as a short sequence of words. Moreover, to address the data sparsity issue in processing short microblog posts, we propose to jointly model the target posts and the conversation contexts initiated by them with bidirectional attention. Extensive experimental results on two large-scale datasets, newly collected from English Twitter and Chinese Weibo, show that our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art models based on classification. Further studies demonstrate our ability to effectively generate rare and even unseen hashtags, which is however not possible for most existing methods.
Scalable Generalized Dynamic Topic Models.Dynamic topic models (DTMs) model the evolution of prevalent themes in literature, online media, and other forms of text over time. DTMs assume that word co-occurrence statistics change continuously and therefore impose continuous stochastic process priors on their model parameters. These dynamical priors make inference much harder than in regular topic models, and also limit scalability. In this paper, we present several new results around DTMs. First, we extend the class of tractable priors from Wiener processes to the generic class of Gaussian processes (GPs). This allows us to explore topics that develop smoothly over time, that have a long-term memory or are temporally concentrated (for event detection). Second, we show how to perform scalable approximate inference in these models based on ideas around stochastic variational inference and sparse Gaussian processes. This way we can train a rich family of DTMs to massive data. Our experiments on several large-scale datasets show that our generalized model allows us to find interesting patterns that were not accessible by previous approaches.
Is BERT Really Robust? A Strong Baseline for Natural Language Attack on   Text Classification and Entailment.Machine learning algorithms are often vulnerable to adversarial examples that have imperceptible alterations from the original counterparts but can fool the state-of-the-art models. It is helpful to evaluate or even improve the robustness of these models by exposing the maliciously crafted adversarial examples. In this paper, we present TextFooler, a simple but strong baseline to generate natural adversarial text. By applying it to two fundamental natural language tasks, text classification and textual entailment, we successfully attacked three target models, including the powerful pre-trained BERT, and the widely used convolutional and recurrent neural networks. We demonstrate the advantages of this framework in three ways: (1) effective---it outperforms state-of-the-art attacks in terms of success rate and perturbation rate, (2) utility-preserving---it preserves semantic content and grammaticality, and remains correctly classified by humans, and (3) efficient---it generates adversarial text with computational complexity linear to the text length. *The code, pre-trained target models, and test examples are available at https://github.com/jind11/TextFooler.
Baseline Needs More Love: On Simple Word-Embedding-Based Models and   Associated Pooling Mechanisms.Many deep learning architectures have been proposed to model the compositionality in text sequences, requiring a substantial number of parameters and expensive computations. However, there has not been a rigorous evaluation regarding the added value of sophisticated compositional functions. In this paper, we conduct a point-by-point comparative study between Simple Word-Embedding-based Models (SWEMs), consisting of parameter-free pooling operations, relative to word-embedding-based RNN/CNN models. Surprisingly, SWEMs exhibit comparable or even superior performance in the majority of cases considered. Based upon this understanding, we propose two additional pooling strategies over learned word embeddings: (i) a max-pooling operation for improved interpretability; and (ii) a hierarchical pooling operation, which preserves spatial (n-gram) information within text sequences. We present experiments on 17 datasets encompassing three tasks: (i) (long) document classification; (ii) text sequence matching; and (iii) short text tasks, including classification and tagging. The source code and datasets can be obtained from https:// github.com/dinghanshen/SWEM.
Incorporating BERT into Neural Machine Translation.The recently proposed BERT has shown great power on a variety of natural language understanding tasks, such as text classification, reading comprehension, etc. However, how to effectively apply BERT to neural machine translation (NMT) lacks enough exploration. While BERT is more commonly used as fine-tuning instead of contextual embedding for downstream language understanding tasks, in NMT, our preliminary exploration of using BERT as contextual embedding is better than using for fine-tuning. This motivates us to think how to better leverage BERT for NMT along this direction. We propose a new algorithm named BERT-fused model, in which we first use BERT to extract representations for an input sequence, and then the representations are fused with each layer of the encoder and decoder of the NMT model through attention mechanisms. We conduct experiments on supervised (including sentence-level and document-level translations), semi-supervised and unsupervised machine translation, and achieve state-of-the-art results on seven benchmark datasets. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/bert-nmt/bert-nmt}.
Nuanced Metrics for Measuring Unintended Bias with Real Data for Text   Classification.Unintended bias in Machine Learning can manifest as systemic differences in performance for different demographic groups, potentially compounding existing challenges to fairness in society at large. In this paper, we introduce a suite of threshold-agnostic metrics that provide a nuanced view of this unintended bias, by considering the various ways that a classifier's score distribution can vary across designated groups. We also introduce a large new test set of online comments with crowd-sourced annotations for identity references. We use this to show how our metrics can be used to find new and potentially subtle unintended bias in existing public models.
HDLTex: Hierarchical Deep Learning for Text Classification.The continually increasing number of documents produced each year necessitates ever improving information processing methods for searching, retrieving, and organizing text. Central to these information processing methods is document classification, which has become an important application for supervised learning. Recently the performance of these traditional classifiers has degraded as the number of documents has increased. This is because along with this growth in the number of documents has come an increase in the number of categories. This paper approaches this problem differently from current document classification methods that view the problem as multi-class classification. Instead we perform hierarchical classification using an approach we call Hierarchical Deep Learning for Text classification (HDLTex). HDLTex employs stacks of deep learning architectures to provide specialized understanding at each level of the document hierarchy.
End-to-end ASR: from Supervised to Semi-Supervised Learning with Modern   Architectures.We study pseudo-labeling for the semi-supervised training of ResNet, Time-Depth Separable ConvNets, and Transformers for speech recognition, with either CTC or Seq2Seq loss functions. We perform experiments on the standard LibriSpeech dataset, and leverage additional unlabeled data from LibriVox through pseudo-labeling. We show that while Transformer-based acoustic models have superior performance with the supervised dataset alone, semi-supervision improves all models across architectures and loss functions and bridges much of the performance gaps between them. In doing so, we reach a new state-of-the-art for end-to-end acoustic models decoded with an external language model in the standard supervised learning setting, and a new absolute state-of-the-art with semi-supervised training. Finally, we study the effect of leveraging different amounts of unlabeled audio, propose several ways of evaluating the characteristics of unlabeled audio which improve acoustic modeling, and show that acoustic models trained with more audio rely less on external language models.
Pay Attention when Required.Transformer-based models consist of interleaved feed-forward blocks - that capture content meaning, and relatively more expensive self-attention blocks - that capture context meaning. In this paper, we explored trade-offs and ordering of the blocks to improve upon the current Transformer architecture and proposed PAR Transformer. It needs 35% lower compute time than Transformer-XL achieved by replacing ~63% of the self-attention blocks with feed-forward blocks, and retains the perplexity on WikiText-103 language modelling benchmark. We further validated our results on text8 and enwiki8 datasets, as well as on the BERT model.
Subword Regularization: Improving Neural Network Translation Models with   Multiple Subword Candidates.Subword units are an effective way to alleviate the open vocabulary problems in neural machine translation (NMT). While sentences are usually converted into unique subword sequences, subword segmentation is potentially ambiguous and multiple segmentations are possible even with the same vocabulary. The question addressed in this paper is whether it is possible to harness the segmentation ambiguity as a noise to improve the robustness of NMT. We present a simple regularization method, subword regularization, which trains the model with multiple subword segmentations probabilistically sampled during training. In addition, for better subword sampling, we propose a new subword segmentation algorithm based on a unigram language model. We experiment with multiple corpora and report consistent improvements especially on low resource and out-of-domain settings.
Accelerating Training of Transformer-Based Language Models with   Progressive Layer Dropping.Recently, Transformer-based language models have demonstrated remarkable performance across many NLP domains. However, the unsupervised pre-training step of these models suffers from unbearable overall computational expenses. Current methods for accelerating the pre-training either rely on massive parallelism with advanced hardware or are not applicable to language modeling. In this work, we propose a method based on progressive layer dropping that speeds the training of Transformer-based language models, not at the cost of excessive hardware resources but from model architecture change and training technique boosted efficiency. Extensive experiments on BERT show that the proposed method achieves a 24% time reduction on average per sample and allows the pre-training to be 2.5 times faster than the baseline to get a similar accuracy on downstream tasks. While being faster, our pre-trained models are equipped with strong knowledge transferability, achieving comparable and sometimes higher GLUE score than the baseline when pre-trained with the same number of samples.
Lookahead Optimizer: k steps forward, 1 step back.The vast majority of successful deep neural networks are trained using variants of stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithms. Recent attempts to improve SGD can be broadly categorized into two approaches: (1) adaptive learning rate schemes, such as AdaGrad and Adam, and (2) accelerated schemes, such as heavy-ball and Nesterov momentum. In this paper, we propose a new optimization algorithm, Lookahead, that is orthogonal to these previous approaches and iteratively updates two sets of weights. Intuitively, the algorithm chooses a search direction by looking ahead at the sequence of fast weights generated by another optimizer. We show that Lookahead improves the learning stability and lowers the variance of its inner optimizer with negligible computation and memory cost. We empirically demonstrate Lookahead can significantly improve the performance of SGD and Adam, even with their default hyperparameter settings on ImageNet, CIFAR-10/100, neural machine translation, and Penn Treebank.
Simple Recurrent Units for Highly Parallelizable Recurrence.Common recurrent neural architectures scale poorly due to the intrinsic difficulty in parallelizing their state computations. In this work, we propose the Simple Recurrent Unit (SRU), a light recurrent unit that balances model capacity and scalability. SRU is designed to provide expressive recurrence, enable highly parallelized implementation, and comes with careful initialization to facilitate training of deep models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SRU on multiple NLP tasks. SRU achieves 5--9x speed-up over cuDNN-optimized LSTM on classification and question answering datasets, and delivers stronger results than LSTM and convolutional models. We also obtain an average of 0.7 BLEU improvement over the Transformer model on translation by incorporating SRU into the architecture.
BPE-Dropout: Simple and Effective Subword Regularization.Subword segmentation is widely used to address the open vocabulary problem in machine translation. The dominant approach to subword segmentation is Byte Pair Encoding (BPE), which keeps the most frequent words intact while splitting the rare ones into multiple tokens. While multiple segmentations are possible even with the same vocabulary, BPE splits words into unique sequences; this may prevent a model from better learning the compositionality of words and being robust to segmentation errors. So far, the only way to overcome this BPE imperfection, its deterministic nature, was to create another subword segmentation algorithm (Kudo, 2018). In contrast, we show that BPE itself incorporates the ability to produce multiple segmentations of the same word. We introduce BPE-dropout - simple and effective subword regularization method based on and compatible with conventional BPE. It stochastically corrupts the segmentation procedure of BPE, which leads to producing multiple segmentations within the same fixed BPE framework. Using BPE-dropout during training and the standard BPE during inference improves translation quality up to 3 BLEU compared to BPE and up to 0.9 BLEU compared to the previous subword regularization.
SentencePiece: A simple and language independent subword tokenizer and   detokenizer for Neural Text Processing.This paper describes SentencePiece, a language-independent subword tokenizer and detokenizer designed for Neural-based text processing, including Neural Machine Translation. It provides open-source C++ and Python implementations for subword units. While existing subword segmentation tools assume that the input is pre-tokenized into word sequences, SentencePiece can train subword models directly from raw sentences, which allows us to make a purely end-to-end and language independent system. We perform a validation experiment of NMT on English-Japanese machine translation, and find that it is possible to achieve comparable accuracy to direct subword training from raw sentences. We also compare the performance of subword training and segmentation with various configurations. SentencePiece is available under the Apache 2 license at https://github.com/google/sentencepiece.
Subword Regularization: Improving Neural Network Translation Models with   Multiple Subword Candidates.Subword units are an effective way to alleviate the open vocabulary problems in neural machine translation (NMT). While sentences are usually converted into unique subword sequences, subword segmentation is potentially ambiguous and multiple segmentations are possible even with the same vocabulary. The question addressed in this paper is whether it is possible to harness the segmentation ambiguity as a noise to improve the robustness of NMT. We present a simple regularization method, subword regularization, which trains the model with multiple subword segmentations probabilistically sampled during training. In addition, for better subword sampling, we propose a new subword segmentation algorithm based on a unigram language model. We experiment with multiple corpora and report consistent improvements especially on low resource and out-of-domain settings.
Google's Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between   Human and Machine Translation.Neural Machine Translation (NMT) is an end-to-end learning approach for automated translation, with the potential to overcome many of the weaknesses of conventional phrase-based translation systems. Unfortunately, NMT systems are known to be computationally expensive both in training and in translation inference. Also, most NMT systems have difficulty with rare words. These issues have hindered NMT's use in practical deployments and services, where both accuracy and speed are essential. In this work, we present GNMT, Google's Neural Machine Translation system, which attempts to address many of these issues. Our model consists of a deep LSTM network with 8 encoder and 8 decoder layers using attention and residual connections. To improve parallelism and therefore decrease training time, our attention mechanism connects the bottom layer of the decoder to the top layer of the encoder. To accelerate the final translation speed, we employ low-precision arithmetic during inference computations. To improve handling of rare words, we divide words into a limited set of common sub-word units ("wordpieces") for both input and output. This method provides a good balance between the flexibility of "character"-delimited models and the efficiency of "word"-delimited models, naturally handles translation of rare words, and ultimately improves the overall accuracy of the system. Our beam search technique employs a length-normalization procedure and uses a coverage penalty, which encourages generation of an output sentence that is most likely to cover all the words in the source sentence. On the WMT'14 English-to-French and English-to-German benchmarks, GNMT achieves competitive results to state-of-the-art. Using a human side-by-side evaluation on a set of isolated simple sentences, it reduces translation errors by an average of 60% compared to Google's phrase-based production system.
ESPnet-ST: All-in-One Speech Translation Toolkit.We present ESPnet-ST, which is designed for the quick development of speech-to-speech translation systems in a single framework. ESPnet-ST is a new project inside end-to-end speech processing toolkit, ESPnet, which integrates or newly implements automatic speech recognition, machine translation, and text-to-speech functions for speech translation. We provide all-in-one recipes including data pre-processing, feature extraction, training, and decoding pipelines for a wide range of benchmark datasets. Our reproducible results can match or even outperform the current state-of-the-art performances; these pre-trained models are downloadable. The toolkit is publicly available at https://github.com/espnet/espnet.
Segmental Recurrent Neural Networks.We introduce segmental recurrent neural networks (SRNNs) which define, given an input sequence, a joint probability distribution over segmentations of the input and labelings of the segments. Representations of the input segments (i.e., contiguous subsequences of the input) are computed by encoding their constituent tokens using bidirectional recurrent neural nets, and these "segment embeddings" are used to define compatibility scores with output labels. These local compatibility scores are integrated using a global semi-Markov conditional random field. Both fully supervised training -- in which segment boundaries and labels are observed -- as well as partially supervised training -- in which segment boundaries are latent -- are straightforward. Experiments on handwriting recognition and joint Chinese word segmentation/POS tagging show that, compared to models that do not explicitly represent segments such as BIO tagging schemes and connectionist temporal classification (CTC), SRNNs obtain substantially higher accuracies.
Cross-lingual Emotion Intensity Prediction.Emotion intensity prediction determines the degree or intensity of an emotion that the author expresses in a text, extending previous categorical approaches to emotion detection. While most previous work on this topic has concentrated on English texts, other languages would also benefit from fine-grained emotion classification, preferably without having to recreate the amount of annotated data available in English in each new language. Consequently, we explore cross-lingual transfer approaches for fine-grained emotion detection in Spanish and Catalan tweets. To this end we annotate a test set of Spanish and Catalan tweets using Best-Worst scaling. We compare six cross-lingual approaches, e.g., machine translation and cross-lingual embeddings, which have varying requirements for parallel data -- from millions of parallel sentences to completely unsupervised. The results show that on this data, methods with low parallel-data requirements perform surprisingly better than methods that use more parallel data, which we explain through an in-depth error analysis. We make the dataset and the code available at \url{https://github.com/jerbarnes/fine-grained_cross-lingual_emotion}
A Common Semantic Space for Monolingual and Cross-Lingual   Meta-Embeddings.This paper presents a new technique for creating monolingual and cross-lingual meta-embeddings. Our method integrates multiple word embeddings created from complementary techniques, textual sources, knowledge bases and languages. Existing word vectors are projected to a common semantic space using linear transformations and averaging. With our method the resulting meta-embeddings maintain the dimensionality of the original embeddings without losing information while dealing with the out-of-vocabulary problem. An extensive empirical evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness of our technique with respect to previous work on various intrinsic and extrinsic multilingual evaluations, obtaining competitive results for Semantic Textual Similarity and state-of-the-art performance for word similarity and POS tagging (English and Spanish). The resulting cross-lingual meta-embeddings also exhibit excellent cross-lingual transfer learning capabilities. In other words, we can leverage pre-trained source embeddings from a resource-rich language in order to improve the word representations for under-resourced languages.
Neural Cross-Lingual Transfer and Limited Annotated Data for Named   Entity Recognition in Danish.Named Entity Recognition (NER) has greatly advanced by the introduction of deep neural architectures. However, the success of these methods depends on large amounts of training data. The scarcity of publicly-available human-labeled datasets has resulted in limited evaluation of existing NER systems, as is the case for Danish. This paper studies the effectiveness of cross-lingual transfer for Danish, evaluates its complementarity to limited gold data, and sheds light on performance of Danish NER.
A logical-based corpus for cross-lingual evaluation.At present, different deep learning models are presenting high accuracy on popular inference datasets such as SNLI, MNLI, and SciTail. However, there are different indicators that those datasets can be exploited by using some simple linguistic patterns. This fact poses difficulties to our understanding of the actual capacity of machine learning models to solve the complex task of textual inference. We propose a new set of syntactic tasks focused on contradiction detection that require specific capacities over linguistic logical forms such as: Boolean coordination, quantifiers, definite description, and counting operators. We evaluate two kinds of deep learning models that implicitly exploit language structure: recurrent models and the Transformer network BERT. We show that although BERT is clearly more efficient to generalize over most logical forms, there is space for improvement when dealing with counting operators. Since the syntactic tasks can be implemented in different languages, we show a successful case of cross-lingual transfer learning between English and Portuguese.
Predicting Concreteness and Imageability of Words Within and Across   Languages via Word Embeddings.The notions of concreteness and imageability, traditionally important in psycholinguistics, are gaining significance in semantic-oriented natural language processing tasks. In this paper we investigate the predictability of these two concepts via supervised learning, using word embeddings as explanatory variables. We perform predictions both within and across languages by exploiting collections of cross-lingual embeddings aligned to a single vector space. We show that the notions of concreteness and imageability are highly predictable both within and across languages, with a moderate loss of up to 20% in correlation when predicting across languages. We further show that the cross-lingual transfer via word embeddings is more efficient than the simple transfer via bilingual dictionaries.
KINNEWS and KIRNEWS: Benchmarking Cross-Lingual Text Classification for   Kinyarwanda and Kirundi.Recent progress in text classification has been focused on high-resource languages such as English and Chinese. For low-resource languages, amongst them most African languages, the lack of well-annotated data and effective preprocessing, is hindering the progress and the transfer of successful methods. In this paper, we introduce two news datasets (KINNEWS and KIRNEWS) for multi-class classification of news articles in Kinyarwanda and Kirundi, two low-resource African languages. The two languages are mutually intelligible, but while Kinyarwanda has been studied in Natural Language Processing (NLP) to some extent, this work constitutes the first study on Kirundi. Along with the datasets, we provide statistics, guidelines for preprocessing, and monolingual and cross-lingual baseline models. Our experiments show that training embeddings on the relatively higher-resourced Kinyarwanda yields successful cross-lingual transfer to Kirundi. In addition, the design of the created datasets allows for a wider use in NLP beyond text classification in future studies, such as representation learning, cross-lingual learning with more distant languages, or as base for new annotations for tasks such as parsing, POS tagging, and NER. The datasets, stopwords, and pre-trained embeddings are publicly available at https://github.com/Andrews2017/KINNEWS-and-KIRNEWS-Corpus .
Automatic Extraction of Rules Governing Morphological Agreement.Creating a descriptive grammar of a language is an indispensable step for language documentation and preservation. However, at the same time it is a tedious, time-consuming task. In this paper, we take steps towards automating this process by devising an automated framework for extracting a first-pass grammatical specification from raw text in a concise, human- and machine-readable format. We focus on extracting rules describing agreement, a morphosyntactic phenomenon at the core of the grammars of many of the world's languages. We apply our framework to all languages included in the Universal Dependencies project, with promising results. Using cross-lingual transfer, even with no expert annotations in the language of interest, our framework extracts a grammatical specification which is nearly equivalent to those created with large amounts of gold-standard annotated data. We confirm this finding with human expert evaluations of the rules that our framework produces, which have an average accuracy of 78%. We release an interface demonstrating the extracted rules at https://neulab.github.io/lase/.
Are We Consistently Biased? Multidimensional Analysis of Biases in   Distributional Word Vectors.Word embeddings have recently been shown to reflect many of the pronounced societal biases (e.g., gender bias or racial bias). Existing studies are, however, limited in scope and do not investigate the consistency of biases across relevant dimensions like embedding models, types of texts, and different languages. In this work, we present a systematic study of biases encoded in distributional word vector spaces: we analyze how consistent the bias effects are across languages, corpora, and embedding models. Furthermore, we analyze the cross-lingual biases encoded in bilingual embedding spaces, indicative of the effects of bias transfer encompassed in cross-lingual transfer of NLP models. Our study yields some unexpected findings, e.g., that biases can be emphasized or downplayed by different embedding models or that user-generated content may be less biased than encyclopedic text. We hope our work catalyzes bias research in NLP and informs the development of bias reduction techniques.
Are All Languages Created Equal in Multilingual BERT?.Multilingual BERT (mBERT) trained on 104 languages has shown surprisingly good cross-lingual performance on several NLP tasks, even without explicit cross-lingual signals. However, these evaluations have focused on cross-lingual transfer with high-resource languages, covering only a third of the languages covered by mBERT. We explore how mBERT performs on a much wider set of languages, focusing on the quality of representation for low-resource languages, measured by within-language performance. We consider three tasks: Named Entity Recognition (99 languages), Part-of-speech Tagging, and Dependency Parsing (54 languages each). mBERT does better than or comparable to baselines on high resource languages but does much worse for low resource languages. Furthermore, monolingual BERT models for these languages do even worse. Paired with similar languages, the performance gap between monolingual BERT and mBERT can be narrowed. We find that better models for low resource languages require more efficient pretraining techniques or more data.
Evaluating Layers of Representation in Neural Machine Translation on   Part-of-Speech and Semantic Tagging Tasks.While neural machine translation (NMT) models provide improved translation quality in an elegant, end-to-end framework, it is less clear what they learn about language. Recent work has started evaluating the quality of vector representations learned by NMT models on morphological and syntactic tasks. In this paper, we investigate the representations learned at different layers of NMT encoders. We train NMT systems on parallel data and use the trained models to extract features for training a classifier on two tasks: part-of-speech and semantic tagging. We then measure the performance of the classifier as a proxy to the quality of the original NMT model for the given task. Our quantitative analysis yields interesting insights regarding representation learning in NMT models. For instance, we find that higher layers are better at learning semantics while lower layers tend to be better for part-of-speech tagging. We also observe little effect of the target language on source-side representations, especially with higher quality NMT models.
Dice Loss for Data-imbalanced NLP Tasks.Many NLP tasks such as tagging and machine reading comprehension are faced with the severe data imbalance issue: negative examples significantly outnumber positive examples, and the huge number of background examples (or easy-negative examples) overwhelms the training. The most commonly used cross entropy (CE) criteria is actually an accuracy-oriented objective, and thus creates a discrepancy between training and test: at training time, each training instance contributes equally to the objective function, while at test time F1 score concerns more about positive examples. In this paper, we propose to use dice loss in replacement of the standard cross-entropy objective for data-imbalanced NLP tasks. Dice loss is based on the Sorensen-Dice coefficient or Tversky index, which attaches similar importance to false positives and false negatives, and is more immune to the data-imbalance issue. To further alleviate the dominating influence from easy-negative examples in training, we propose to associate training examples with dynamically adjusted weights to deemphasize easy-negative examples.Theoretical analysis shows that this strategy narrows down the gap between the F1 score in evaluation and the dice loss in training. With the proposed training objective, we observe significant performance boost on a wide range of data imbalanced NLP tasks. Notably, we are able to achieve SOTA results on CTB5, CTB6 and UD1.4 for the part of speech tagging task; SOTA results on CoNLL03, OntoNotes5.0, MSRA and OntoNotes4.0 for the named entity recognition task; along with competitive results on the tasks of machine reading comprehension and paraphrase identification.
Parsing Tweets into Universal Dependencies.We study the problem of analyzing tweets with Universal Dependencies. We extend the UD guidelines to cover special constructions in tweets that affect tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, and labeled dependencies. Using the extended guidelines, we create a new tweet treebank for English (Tweebank v2) that is four times larger than the (unlabeled) Tweebank v1 introduced by Kong et al. (2014). We characterize the disagreements between our annotators and show that it is challenging to deliver consistent annotation due to ambiguity in understanding and explaining tweets. Nonetheless, using the new treebank, we build a pipeline system to parse raw tweets into UD. To overcome annotation noise without sacrificing computational efficiency, we propose a new method to distill an ensemble of 20 transition-based parsers into a single one. Our parser achieves an improvement of 2.2 in LAS over the un-ensembled baseline and outperforms parsers that are state-of-the-art on other treebanks in both accuracy and speed.
Gaussian Mixture Latent Vector Grammars.We introduce Latent Vector Grammars (LVeGs), a new framework that extends latent variable grammars such that each nonterminal symbol is associated with a continuous vector space representing the set of (infinitely many) subtypes of the nonterminal. We show that previous models such as latent variable grammars and compositional vector grammars can be interpreted as special cases of LVeGs. We then present Gaussian Mixture LVeGs (GM-LVeGs), a new special case of LVeGs that uses Gaussian mixtures to formulate the weights of production rules over subtypes of nonterminals. A major advantage of using Gaussian mixtures is that the partition function and the expectations of subtype rules can be computed using an extension of the inside-outside algorithm, which enables efficient inference and learning. We apply GM-LVeGs to part-of-speech tagging and constituency parsing and show that GM-LVeGs can achieve competitive accuracies. Our code is available at https://github.com/zhaoyanpeng/lveg.
Multi-Source Domain Adaptation with Mixture of Experts.We propose a mixture-of-experts approach for unsupervised domain adaptation from multiple sources. The key idea is to explicitly capture the relationship between a target example and different source domains. This relationship, expressed by a point-to-set metric, determines how to combine predictors trained on various domains. The metric is learned in an unsupervised fashion using meta-training. Experimental results on sentiment analysis and part-of-speech tagging demonstrate that our approach consistently outperforms multiple baselines and can robustly handle negative transfer.
Part-of-Speech Tagging with Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory   Recurrent Neural Network.Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Network (BLSTM-RNN) has been shown to be very effective for tagging sequential data, e.g. speech utterances or handwritten documents. While word embedding has been demoed as a powerful representation for characterizing the statistical properties of natural language. In this study, we propose to use BLSTM-RNN with word embedding for part-of-speech (POS) tagging task. When tested on Penn Treebank WSJ test set, a state-of-the-art performance of 97.40 tagging accuracy is achieved. Without using morphological features, this approach can also achieve a good performance comparable with the Stanford POS tagger.
A Self-Attentive Emotion Recognition Network.Modern deep learning approaches have achieved groundbreaking performance in modeling and classifying sequential data. Specifically, attention networks constitute the state-of-the-art paradigm for capturing long temporal dynamics. This paper examines the efficacy of this paradigm in the challenging task of emotion recognition in dyadic conversations. In contrast to existing approaches, our work introduces a novel attention mechanism capable of inferring the immensity of the effect of each past utterance on the current speaker emotional state. The proposed attention mechanism performs this inference procedure without the need of a decoder network; this is achieved by means of innovative self-attention arguments. Our self-attention networks capture the correlation patterns among consecutive encoder network states, thus allowing to robustly and effectively model temporal dynamics over arbitrary long temporal horizons. Thus, we enable capturing strong affective patterns over the course of long discussions. We exhibit the effectiveness of our approach considering the challenging IEMOCAP benchmark. As we show, our devised methodology outperforms state-of-the-art alternatives and commonly used approaches, giving rise to promising new research directions in the context of Online Social Network (OSN) analysis tasks.
How Deep Neural Networks Can Improve Emotion Recognition on Video Data.We consider the task of dimensional emotion recognition on video data using deep learning. While several previous methods have shown the benefits of training temporal neural network models such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs) on hand-crafted features, few works have considered combining convolutional neural networks (CNNs) with RNNs. In this work, we present a system that performs emotion recognition on video data using both CNNs and RNNs, and we also analyze how much each neural network component contributes to the system's overall performance. We present our findings on videos from the Audio/Visual+Emotion Challenge (AV+EC2015). In our experiments, we analyze the effects of several hyperparameters on overall performance while also achieving superior performance to the baseline and other competing methods.
Learning and Evaluating Emotion Lexicons for 91 Languages.Emotion lexicons describe the affective meaning of words and thus constitute a centerpiece for advanced sentiment and emotion analysis. Yet, manually curated lexicons are only available for a handful of languages, leaving most languages of the world without such a precious resource for downstream applications. Even worse, their coverage is often limited both in terms of the lexical units they contain and the emotional variables they feature. In order to break this bottleneck, we here introduce a methodology for creating almost arbitrarily large emotion lexicons for any target language. Our approach requires nothing but a source language emotion lexicon, a bilingual word translation model, and a target language embedding model. Fulfilling these requirements for 91 languages, we are able to generate representationally rich high-coverage lexicons comprising eight emotional variables with more than 100k lexical entries each. We evaluated the automatically generated lexicons against human judgment from 26 datasets, spanning 12 typologically diverse languages, and found that our approach produces results in line with state-of-the-art monolingual approaches to lexicon creation and even surpasses human reliability for some languages and variables. Code and data are available at https://github.com/JULIELab/MEmoLon archived under DOI https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3779901.
MuSe 2020 -- The First International Multimodal Sentiment Analysis in   Real-life Media Challenge and Workshop.Multimodal Sentiment Analysis in Real-life Media (MuSe) 2020 is a Challenge-based Workshop focusing on the tasks of sentiment recognition, as well as emotion-target engagement and trustworthiness detection by means of more comprehensively integrating the audio-visual and language modalities. The purpose of MuSe 2020 is to bring together communities from different disciplines; mainly, the audio-visual emotion recognition community (signal-based), and the sentiment analysis community (symbol-based). We present three distinct sub-challenges: MuSe-Wild, which focuses on continuous emotion (arousal and valence) prediction; MuSe-Topic, in which participants recognise domain-specific topics as the target of 3-class (low, medium, high) emotions; and MuSe-Trust, in which the novel aspect of trustworthiness is to be predicted. In this paper, we provide detailed information on MuSe-CaR, the first of its kind in-the-wild database, which is utilised for the challenge, as well as the state-of-the-art features and modelling approaches applied. For each sub-challenge, a competitive baseline for participants is set; namely, on test we report for MuSe-Wild a combined (valence and arousal) CCC of .2568, for MuSe-Topic a score (computed as 0.34$\cdot$ UAR + 0.66$\cdot$F1) of 76.78 % on the 10-class topic and 40.64 % on the 3-class emotion prediction, and for MuSe-Trust a CCC of .4359.
PO-EMO: Conceptualization, Annotation, and Modeling of Aesthetic   Emotions in German and English Poetry.Most approaches to emotion analysis of social media, literature, news, and other domains focus exclusively on basic emotion categories as defined by Ekman or Plutchik. However, art (such as literature) enables engagement in a broader range of more complex and subtle emotions. These have been shown to also include mixed emotional responses. We consider emotions in poetry as they are elicited in the reader, rather than what is expressed in the text or intended by the author. Thus, we conceptualize a set of aesthetic emotions that are predictive of aesthetic appreciation in the reader, and allow the annotation of multiple labels per line to capture mixed emotions within their context. We evaluate this novel setting in an annotation experiment both with carefully trained experts and via crowdsourcing. Our annotation with experts leads to an acceptable agreement of kappa = .70, resulting in a consistent dataset for future large scale analysis. Finally, we conduct first emotion classification experiments based on BERT, showing that identifying aesthetic emotions is challenging in our data, with up to .52 F1-micro on the German subset. Data and resources are available at https://github.com/tnhaider/poetry-emotion
MSAF: Multimodal Split Attention Fusion.Multimodal learning mimics the reasoning process of the human multi-sensory system, which is used to perceive the surrounding world. While making a prediction, the human brain tends to relate crucial cues from multiple sources of information. In this work, we propose a novel multimodal fusion module that learns to emphasize more contributive features across all modalities. Specifically, the proposed Multimodal Split Attention Fusion (MSAF) module splits each modality into channel-wise equal feature blocks and creates a joint representation that is used to generate soft attention for each channel across the feature blocks. Further, the MSAF module is designed to be compatible with features of various spatial dimensions and sequence lengths, suitable for both CNNs and RNNs. Thus, MSAF can be easily added to fuse features of any unimodal networks and utilize existing pretrained unimodal model weights. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our fusion module, we design three multimodal networks with MSAF for emotion recognition, sentiment analysis, and action recognition tasks. Our approach achieves competitive results in each task and outperforms other application-specific networks and multimodal fusion benchmarks.
Interactive Semantic Parsing for If-Then Recipes via Hierarchical   Reinforcement Learning.Given a text description, most existing semantic parsers synthesize a program in one shot. However, it is quite challenging to produce a correct program solely based on the description, which in reality is often ambiguous or incomplete. In this paper, we investigate interactive semantic parsing, where the agent can ask the user clarification questions to resolve ambiguities via a multi-turn dialogue, on an important type of programs called "If-Then recipes." We develop a hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL) based agent that significantly improves the parsing performance with minimal questions to the user. Results under both simulation and human evaluation show that our agent substantially outperforms non-interactive semantic parsers and rule-based agents.
Exploiting Rich Syntactic Information for Semantic Parsing with   Graph-to-Sequence Model.Existing neural semantic parsers mainly utilize a sequence encoder, i.e., a sequential LSTM, to extract word order features while neglecting other valuable syntactic information such as dependency graph or constituent trees. In this paper, we first propose to use the \textit{syntactic graph} to represent three types of syntactic information, i.e., word order, dependency and constituency features. We further employ a graph-to-sequence model to encode the syntactic graph and decode a logical form. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that our model is comparable to the state-of-the-art on Jobs640, ATIS and Geo880. Experimental results on adversarial examples demonstrate the robustness of the model is also improved by encoding more syntactic information.
Confidence Modeling for Neural Semantic Parsing.In this work we focus on confidence modeling for neural semantic parsers which are built upon sequence-to-sequence models. We outline three major causes of uncertainty, and design various metrics to quantify these factors. These metrics are then used to estimate confidence scores that indicate whether model predictions are likely to be correct. Beyond confidence estimation, we identify which parts of the input contribute to uncertain predictions allowing users to interpret their model, and verify or refine its input. Experimental results show that our confidence model significantly outperforms a widely used method that relies on posterior probability, and improves the quality of interpretation compared to simply relying on attention scores.
Data-Free Point Cloud Network for 3D Face Recognition.Point clouds-based Networks have achieved great attention in 3D object classification, segmentation and indoor scene semantic parsing. In terms of face recognition, 3D face recognition method which directly consume point clouds as input is still under study. Two main factors account for this: One is how to get discriminative face representations from 3D point clouds using deep network; the other is the lack of large 3D training dataset. To address these problems, a data-free 3D face recognition method is proposed only using synthesized unreal data from statistical 3D Morphable Model to train a deep point cloud network. To ease the inconsistent distribution between model data and real faces, different point sampling methods are used in train and test phase. In this paper, we propose a curvature-aware point sampling(CPS) strategy replacing the original furthest point sampling(FPS) to hierarchically down-sample feature-sensitive points which are crucial to pass and aggregate features deeply. A PointNet++ like Network is used to extract face features directly from point clouds. The experimental results show that the network trained on generated data generalizes well for real 3D faces. Fine tuning on a small part of FRGCv2.0 and Bosphorus, which include real faces in different poses and expressions, further improves recognition accuracy.
Program Synthesis and Semantic Parsing with Learned Code Idioms.Program synthesis of general-purpose source code from natural language specifications is challenging due to the need to reason about high-level patterns in the target program and low-level implementation details at the same time. In this work, we present PATOIS, a system that allows a neural program synthesizer to explicitly interleave high-level and low-level reasoning at every generation step. It accomplishes this by automatically mining common code idioms from a given corpus, incorporating them into the underlying language for neural synthesis, and training a tree-based neural synthesizer to use these idioms during code generation. We evaluate PATOIS on two complex semantic parsing datasets and show that using learned code idioms improves the synthesizer's accuracy.
Specialising Word Vectors for Lexical Entailment.We present LEAR (Lexical Entailment Attract-Repel), a novel post-processing method that transforms any input word vector space to emphasise the asymmetric relation of lexical entailment (LE), also known as the IS-A or hyponymy-hypernymy relation. By injecting external linguistic constraints (e.g., WordNet links) into the initial vector space, the LE specialisation procedure brings true hyponymy-hypernymy pairs closer together in the transformed Euclidean space. The proposed asymmetric distance measure adjusts the norms of word vectors to reflect the actual WordNet-style hierarchy of concepts. Simultaneously, a joint objective enforces semantic similarity using the symmetric cosine distance, yielding a vector space specialised for both lexical relations at once. LEAR specialisation achieves state-of-the-art performance in the tasks of hypernymy directionality, hypernymy detection, and graded lexical entailment, demonstrating the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed asymmetric specialisation model.
Generating More Interesting Responses in Neural Conversation Models with   Distributional Constraints.Neural conversation models tend to generate safe, generic responses for most inputs. This is due to the limitations of likelihood-based decoding objectives in generation tasks with diverse outputs, such as conversation. To address this challenge, we propose a simple yet effective approach for incorporating side information in the form of distributional constraints over the generated responses. We propose two constraints that help generate more content rich responses that are based on a model of syntax and topics (Griffiths et al., 2005) and semantic similarity (Arora et al., 2016). We evaluate our approach against a variety of competitive baselines, using both automatic metrics and human judgments, showing that our proposed approach generates responses that are much less generic without sacrificing plausibility. A working demo of our code can be found at https://github.com/abaheti95/DC-NeuralConversation.
Correlations between Word Vector Sets.Similarity measures based purely on word embeddings are comfortably competing with much more sophisticated deep learning and expert-engineered systems on unsupervised semantic textual similarity (STS) tasks. In contrast to commonly used geometric approaches, we treat a single word embedding as e.g. 300 observations from a scalar random variable. Using this paradigm, we first illustrate that similarities derived from elementary pooling operations and classic correlation coefficients yield excellent results on standard STS benchmarks, outperforming many recently proposed methods while being much faster and trivial to implement. Next, we demonstrate how to avoid pooling operations altogether and compare sets of word embeddings directly via correlation operators between reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. Just like cosine similarity is used to compare individual word vectors, we introduce a novel application of the centered kernel alignment (CKA) as a natural generalisation of squared cosine similarity for sets of word vectors. Likewise, CKA is very easy to implement and enjoys very strong empirical results.
Making Fast Graph-based Algorithms with Graph Metric Embeddings.The computation of distance measures between nodes in graphs is inefficient and does not scale to large graphs. We explore dense vector representations as an effective way to approximate the same information: we introduce a simple yet efficient and effective approach for learning graph embeddings. Instead of directly operating on the graph structure, our method takes structural measures of pairwise node similarities into account and learns dense node representations reflecting user-defined graph distance measures, such as e.g.the shortest path distance or distance measures that take information beyond the graph structure into account. We demonstrate a speed-up of several orders of magnitude when predicting word similarity by vector operations on our embeddings as opposed to directly computing the respective path-based measures, while outperforming various other graph embeddings on semantic similarity and word sense disambiguation tasks and show evaluations on the WordNet graph and two knowledge base graphs.
Correlation Coefficients and Semantic Textual Similarity.A large body of research into semantic textual similarity has focused on constructing state-of-the-art embeddings using sophisticated modelling, careful choice of learning signals and many clever tricks. By contrast, little attention has been devoted to similarity measures between these embeddings, with cosine similarity being used unquestionably in the majority of cases. In this work, we illustrate that for all common word vectors, cosine similarity is essentially equivalent to the Pearson correlation coefficient, which provides some justification for its use. We thoroughly characterise cases where Pearson correlation (and thus cosine similarity) is unfit as similarity measure. Importantly, we show that Pearson correlation is appropriate for some word vectors but not others. When it is not appropriate, we illustrate how common non-parametric rank correlation coefficients can be used instead to significantly improve performance. We support our analysis with a series of evaluations on word-level and sentence-level semantic textual similarity benchmarks. On the latter, we show that even the simplest averaged word vectors compared by rank correlation easily rival the strongest deep representations compared by cosine similarity.
Near-lossless Binarization of Word Embeddings.Word embeddings are commonly used as a starting point in many NLP models to achieve state-of-the-art performances. However, with a large vocabulary and many dimensions, these floating-point representations are expensive both in terms of memory and calculations which makes them unsuitable for use on low-resource devices. The method proposed in this paper transforms real-valued embeddings into binary embeddings while preserving semantic information, requiring only 128 or 256 bits for each vector. This leads to a small memory footprint and fast vector operations. The model is based on an autoencoder architecture, which also allows to reconstruct original vectors from the binary ones. Experimental results on semantic similarity, text classification and sentiment analysis tasks show that the binarization of word embeddings only leads to a loss of ~2% in accuracy while vector size is reduced by 97%. Furthermore, a top-k benchmark demonstrates that using these binary vectors is 30 times faster than using real-valued vectors.
Many Languages, One Parser.We train one multilingual model for dependency parsing and use it to parse sentences in several languages. The parsing model uses (i) multilingual word clusters and embeddings; (ii) token-level language information; and (iii) language-specific features (fine-grained POS tags). This input representation enables the parser not only to parse effectively in multiple languages, but also to generalize across languages based on linguistic universals and typological similarities, making it more effective to learn from limited annotations. Our parser's performance compares favorably to strong baselines in a range of data scenarios, including when the target language has a large treebank, a small treebank, or no treebank for training.
Cross-Lingual BERT Transformation for Zero-Shot Dependency Parsing.This paper investigates the problem of learning cross-lingual representations in a contextual space. We propose Cross-Lingual BERT Transformation (CLBT), a simple and efficient approach to generate cross-lingual contextualized word embeddings based on publicly available pre-trained BERT models (Devlin et al., 2018). In this approach, a linear transformation is learned from contextual word alignments to align the contextualized embeddings independently trained in different languages. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on zero-shot cross-lingual transfer parsing. Experiments show that our embeddings substantially outperform the previous state-of-the-art that uses static embeddings. We further compare our approach with XLM (Lample and Conneau, 2019), a recently proposed cross-lingual language model trained with massive parallel data, and achieve highly competitive results.
Arc-swift: A Novel Transition System for Dependency Parsing.Transition-based dependency parsers often need sequences of local shift and reduce operations to produce certain attachments. Correct individual decisions hence require global information about the sentence context and mistakes cause error propagation. This paper proposes a novel transition system, arc-swift, that enables direct attachments between tokens farther apart with a single transition. This allows the parser to leverage lexical information more directly in transition decisions. Hence, arc-swift can achieve significantly better performance with a very small beam size. Our parsers reduce error by 3.7--7.6% relative to those using existing transition systems on the Penn Treebank dependency parsing task and English Universal Dependencies.
Dependency Parsing as Head Selection.Conventional graph-based dependency parsers guarantee a tree structure both during training and inference. Instead, we formalize dependency parsing as the problem of independently selecting the head of each word in a sentence. Our model which we call \textsc{DeNSe} (as shorthand for {\bf De}pendency {\bf N}eural {\bf Se}lection) produces a distribution over possible heads for each word using features obtained from a bidirectional recurrent neural network. Without enforcing structural constraints during training, \textsc{DeNSe} generates (at inference time) trees for the overwhelming majority of sentences, while non-tree outputs can be adjusted with a maximum spanning tree algorithm. We evaluate \textsc{DeNSe} on four languages (English, Chinese, Czech, and German) with varying degrees of non-projectivity. Despite the simplicity of the approach, our parsers are on par with the state of the art.
A Graph-based Model for Joint Chinese Word Segmentation and Dependency   Parsing.Chinese word segmentation and dependency parsing are two fundamental tasks for Chinese natural language processing. The dependency parsing is defined on word-level. Therefore word segmentation is the precondition of dependency parsing, which makes dependency parsing suffer from error propagation and unable to directly make use of the character-level pre-trained language model (such as BERT). In this paper, we propose a graph-based model to integrate Chinese word segmentation and dependency parsing. Different from previous transition-based joint models, our proposed model is more concise, which results in fewer efforts of feature engineering. Our graph-based joint model achieves better performance than previous joint models and state-of-the-art results in both Chinese word segmentation and dependency parsing. Besides, when BERT is combined, our model can substantially reduce the performance gap of dependency parsing between joint models and gold-segmented word-based models. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/fastnlp/JointCwsParser.
Distilling Knowledge for Search-based Structured Prediction.Many natural language processing tasks can be modeled into structured prediction and solved as a search problem. In this paper, we distill an ensemble of multiple models trained with different initialization into a single model. In addition to learning to match the ensemble's probability output on the reference states, we also use the ensemble to explore the search space and learn from the encountered states in the exploration. Experimental results on two typical search-based structured prediction tasks -- transition-based dependency parsing and neural machine translation show that distillation can effectively improve the single model's performance and the final model achieves improvements of 1.32 in LAS and 2.65 in BLEU score on these two tasks respectively over strong baselines and it outperforms the greedy structured prediction models in previous literatures.
Cross-Lingual Syntactic Transfer through Unsupervised Adaptation of   Invertible Projections.Cross-lingual transfer is an effective way to build syntactic analysis tools in low-resource languages. However, transfer is difficult when transferring to typologically distant languages, especially when neither annotated target data nor parallel corpora are available. In this paper, we focus on methods for cross-lingual transfer to distant languages and propose to learn a generative model with a structured prior that utilizes labeled source data and unlabeled target data jointly. The parameters of source model and target model are softly shared through a regularized log likelihood objective. An invertible projection is employed to learn a new interlingual latent embedding space that compensates for imperfect cross-lingual word embedding input. We evaluate our method on two syntactic tasks: part-of-speech (POS) tagging and dependency parsing. On the Universal Dependency Treebanks, we use English as the only source corpus and transfer to a wide range of target languages. On the 10 languages in this dataset that are distant from English, our method yields an average of 5.2% absolute improvement on POS tagging and 8.3% absolute improvement on dependency parsing over a direct transfer method using state-of-the-art discriminative models.
A Unifying Theory of Transition-based and Sequence Labeling Parsing.We define a mapping from transition-based parsing algorithms that read sentences from left to right to sequence labeling encodings of syntactic trees. This not only establishes a theoretical relation between transition-based parsing and sequence-labeling parsing, but also provides a method to obtain new encodings for fast and simple sequence labeling parsing from the many existing transition-based parsers for different formalisms. Applying it to dependency parsing, we implement sequence labeling versions of four algorithms, showing that they are learnable and obtain comparable performance to existing encodings.
Neural Vector Spaces for Unsupervised Information Retrieval.We propose the Neural Vector Space Model (NVSM), a method that learns representations of documents in an unsupervised manner for news article retrieval. In the NVSM paradigm, we learn low-dimensional representations of words and documents from scratch using gradient descent and rank documents according to their similarity with query representations that are composed from word representations. We show that NVSM performs better at document ranking than existing latent semantic vector space methods. The addition of NVSM to a mixture of lexical language models and a state-of-the-art baseline vector space model yields a statistically significant increase in retrieval effectiveness. Consequently, NVSM adds a complementary relevance signal. Next to semantic matching, we find that NVSM performs well in cases where lexical matching is needed.   NVSM learns a notion of term specificity directly from the document collection without feature engineering. We also show that NVSM learns regularities related to Luhn significance. Finally, we give advice on how to deploy NVSM in situations where model selection (e.g., cross-validation) is infeasible. We find that an unsupervised ensemble of multiple models trained with different hyperparameter values performs better than a single cross-validated model. Therefore, NVSM can safely be used for ranking documents without supervised relevance judgments.
Variational Deep Semantic Hashing for Text Documents.As the amount of textual data has been rapidly increasing over the past decade, efficient similarity search methods have become a crucial component of large-scale information retrieval systems. A popular strategy is to represent original data samples by compact binary codes through hashing. A spectrum of machine learning methods have been utilized, but they often lack expressiveness and flexibility in modeling to learn effective representations. The recent advances of deep learning in a wide range of applications has demonstrated its capability to learn robust and powerful feature representations for complex data. Especially, deep generative models naturally combine the expressiveness of probabilistic generative models with the high capacity of deep neural networks, which is very suitable for text modeling. However, little work has leveraged the recent progress in deep learning for text hashing.   In this paper, we propose a series of novel deep document generative models for text hashing. The first proposed model is unsupervised while the second one is supervised by utilizing document labels/tags for hashing. The third model further considers document-specific factors that affect the generation of words. The probabilistic generative formulation of the proposed models provides a principled framework for model extension, uncertainty estimation, simulation, and interpretability. Based on variational inference and reparameterization, the proposed models can be interpreted as encoder-decoder deep neural networks and thus they are capable of learning complex nonlinear distributed representations of the original documents. We conduct a comprehensive set of experiments on four public testbeds. The experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed supervised learning models for text hashing.
Answering Questions on COVID-19 in Real-Time.The recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus is wreaking havoc on the world and researchers are struggling to effectively combat it. One reason why the fight is difficult is due to the lack of information and knowledge. In this work, we outline our effort to contribute to shrinking this knowledge vacuum by creating covidAsk, a question answering (QA) system that combines biomedical text mining and QA techniques to provide answers to questions in real-time. Our system also leverages information retrieval (IR) approaches to provide entity-level answers that are complementary to QA models. Evaluation of covidAsk is carried out by using a manually created dataset called COVID-19 Questions which is based on information from various sources, including the CDC and the WHO. We hope our system will be able to aid researchers in their search for knowledge and information not only for COVID-19, but for future pandemics as well.
A standardized Project Gutenberg corpus for statistical analysis of   natural language and quantitative linguistics.The use of Project Gutenberg (PG) as a text corpus has been extremely popular in statistical analysis of language for more than 25 years. However, in contrast to other major linguistic datasets of similar importance, no consensual full version of PG exists to date. In fact, most PG studies so far either consider only a small number of manually selected books, leading to potential biased subsets, or employ vastly different pre-processing strategies (often specified in insufficient details), raising concerns regarding the reproducibility of published results. In order to address these shortcomings, here we present the Standardized Project Gutenberg Corpus (SPGC), an open science approach to a curated version of the complete PG data containing more than 50,000 books and more than $3 \times 10^9$ word-tokens. Using different sources of annotated metadata, we not only provide a broad characterization of the content of PG, but also show different examples highlighting the potential of SPGC for investigating language variability across time, subjects, and authors. We publish our methodology in detail, the code to download and process the data, as well as the obtained corpus itself on 3 different levels of granularity (raw text, timeseries of word tokens, and counts of words). In this way, we provide a reproducible, pre-processed, full-size version of Project Gutenberg as a new scientific resource for corpus linguistics, natural language processing, and information retrieval.
Linear Algebraic Structure of Word Senses, with Applications to Polysemy.Word embeddings are ubiquitous in NLP and information retrieval, but it is unclear what they represent when the word is polysemous. Here it is shown that multiple word senses reside in linear superposition within the word embedding and simple sparse coding can recover vectors that approximately capture the senses. The success of our approach, which applies to several embedding methods, is mathematically explained using a variant of the random walk on discourses model (Arora et al., 2016). A novel aspect of our technique is that each extracted word sense is accompanied by one of about 2000 "discourse atoms" that gives a succinct description of which other words co-occur with that word sense. Discourse atoms can be of independent interest, and make the method potentially more useful. Empirical tests are used to verify and support the theory.
Content-based image retrieval tutorial.This paper functions as a tutorial for individuals interested to enter the field of information retrieval but wouldn't know where to begin from. It describes two fundamental yet efficient image retrieval techniques, the first being k - nearest neighbors (knn) and the second support vector machines(svm). The goal is to provide the reader with both the theoretical and practical aspects in order to acquire a better understanding. Along with this tutorial we have also developed the equivalent software1 using the MATLAB environment in order to illustrate the techniques, so that the reader can have a hands-on experience.
Declarative Experimentation in Information Retrieval using PyTerrier.The advent of deep machine learning platforms such as Tensorflow and Pytorch, developed in expressive high-level languages such as Python, have allowed more expressive representations of deep neural network architectures. We argue that such a powerful formalism is missing in information retrieval (IR), and propose a framework called PyTerrier that allows advanced retrieval pipelines to be expressed, and evaluated, in a declarative manner close to their conceptual design. Like the aforementioned frameworks that compile deep learning experiments into primitive GPU operations, our framework targets IR platforms as backends in order to execute and evaluate retrieval pipelines. Further, we can automatically optimise the retrieval pipelines to increase their efficiency to suite a particular IR platform backend. Our experiments, conducted on TREC Robust and ClueWeb09 test collections, demonstrate the efficiency benefits of these optimisations for retrieval pipelines involving both the Anserini and Terrier IR platforms.
Transfer Learning in Biomedical Natural Language Processing: An   Evaluation of BERT and ELMo on Ten Benchmarking Datasets.Inspired by the success of the General Language Understanding Evaluation benchmark, we introduce the Biomedical Language Understanding Evaluation (BLUE) benchmark to facilitate research in the development of pre-training language representations in the biomedicine domain. The benchmark consists of five tasks with ten datasets that cover both biomedical and clinical texts with different dataset sizes and difficulties. We also evaluate several baselines based on BERT and ELMo and find that the BERT model pre-trained on PubMed abstracts and MIMIC-III clinical notes achieves the best results. We make the datasets, pre-trained models, and codes publicly available at https://github.com/ncbi-nlp/BLUE_Benchmark.
Natural Language Inference over Interaction Space.Natural Language Inference (NLI) task requires an agent to determine the logical relationship between a natural language premise and a natural language hypothesis. We introduce Interactive Inference Network (IIN), a novel class of neural network architectures that is able to achieve high-level understanding of the sentence pair by hierarchically extracting semantic features from interaction space. We show that an interaction tensor (attention weight) contains semantic information to solve natural language inference, and a denser interaction tensor contains richer semantic information. One instance of such architecture, Densely Interactive Inference Network (DIIN), demonstrates the state-of-the-art performance on large scale NLI copora and large-scale NLI alike corpus. It's noteworthy that DIIN achieve a greater than 20% error reduction on the challenging Multi-Genre NLI (MultiNLI) dataset with respect to the strongest published system.
Long Short-Term Memory-Networks for Machine Reading.In this paper we address the question of how to render sequence-level networks better at handling structured input. We propose a machine reading simulator which processes text incrementally from left to right and performs shallow reasoning with memory and attention. The reader extends the Long Short-Term Memory architecture with a memory network in place of a single memory cell. This enables adaptive memory usage during recurrence with neural attention, offering a way to weakly induce relations among tokens. The system is initially designed to process a single sequence but we also demonstrate how to integrate it with an encoder-decoder architecture. Experiments on language modeling, sentiment analysis, and natural language inference show that our model matches or outperforms the state of the art.
Hyperbolic Neural Networks.Hyperbolic spaces have recently gained momentum in the context of machine learning due to their high capacity and tree-likeliness properties. However, the representational power of hyperbolic geometry is not yet on par with Euclidean geometry, mostly because of the absence of corresponding hyperbolic neural network layers. This makes it hard to use hyperbolic embeddings in downstream tasks. Here, we bridge this gap in a principled manner by combining the formalism of M\"obius gyrovector spaces with the Riemannian geometry of the Poincar\'e model of hyperbolic spaces. As a result, we derive hyperbolic versions of important deep learning tools: multinomial logistic regression, feed-forward and recurrent neural networks such as gated recurrent units. This allows to embed sequential data and perform classification in the hyperbolic space. Empirically, we show that, even if hyperbolic optimization tools are limited, hyperbolic sentence embeddings either outperform or are on par with their Euclidean variants on textual entailment and noisy-prefix recognition tasks.
KorNLI and KorSTS: New Benchmark Datasets for Korean Natural Language   Understanding.Natural language inference (NLI) and semantic textual similarity (STS) are key tasks in natural language understanding (NLU). Although several benchmark datasets for those tasks have been released in English and a few other languages, there are no publicly available NLI or STS datasets in the Korean language. Motivated by this, we construct and release new datasets for Korean NLI and STS, dubbed KorNLI and KorSTS, respectively. Following previous approaches, we machine-translate existing English training sets and manually translate development and test sets into Korean. To accelerate research on Korean NLU, we also establish baselines on KorNLI and KorSTS. Our datasets are publicly available at https://github.com/kakaobrain/KorNLUDatasets.
KagNet: Knowledge-Aware Graph Networks for Commonsense Reasoning.Commonsense reasoning aims to empower machines with the human ability to make presumptions about ordinary situations in our daily life. In this paper, we propose a textual inference framework for answering commonsense questions, which effectively utilizes external, structured commonsense knowledge graphs to perform explainable inferences. The framework first grounds a question-answer pair from the semantic space to the knowledge-based symbolic space as a schema graph, a related sub-graph of external knowledge graphs. It represents schema graphs with a novel knowledge-aware graph network module named KagNet, and finally scores answers with graph representations. Our model is based on graph convolutional networks and LSTMs, with a hierarchical path-based attention mechanism. The intermediate attention scores make it transparent and interpretable, which thus produce trustworthy inferences. Using ConceptNet as the only external resource for Bert-based models, we achieved state-of-the-art performance on the CommonsenseQA, a large-scale dataset for commonsense reasoning.
A Broad-Coverage Challenge Corpus for Sentence Understanding through   Inference.This paper introduces the Multi-Genre Natural Language Inference (MultiNLI) corpus, a dataset designed for use in the development and evaluation of machine learning models for sentence understanding. In addition to being one of the largest corpora available for the task of NLI, at 433k examples, this corpus improves upon available resources in its coverage: it offers data from ten distinct genres of written and spoken English--making it possible to evaluate systems on nearly the full complexity of the language--and it offers an explicit setting for the evaluation of cross-genre domain adaptation.
Deep Learning Based Text Classification: A Comprehensive Review.Deep learning based models have surpassed classical machine learning based approaches in various text classification tasks, including sentiment analysis, news categorization, question answering, and natural language inference. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of more than 150 deep learning based models for text classification developed in recent years, and discuss their technical contributions, similarities, and strengths. We also provide a summary of more than 40 popular datasets widely used for text classification. Finally, we provide a quantitative analysis of the performance of different deep learning models on popular benchmarks, and discuss future research directions.
Downstream Model Design of Pre-trained Language Model for Relation   Extraction Task.Supervised relation extraction methods based on deep neural network play an important role in the recent information extraction field. However, at present, their performance still fails to reach a good level due to the existence of complicated relations. On the other hand, recently proposed pre-trained language models (PLMs) have achieved great success in multiple tasks of natural language processing through fine-tuning when combined with the model of downstream tasks. However, original standard tasks of PLM do not include the relation extraction task yet. We believe that PLMs can also be used to solve the relation extraction problem, but it is necessary to establish a specially designed downstream task model or even loss function for dealing with complicated relations. In this paper, a new network architecture with a special loss function is designed to serve as a downstream model of PLMs for supervised relation extraction. Experiments have shown that our method significantly exceeded the current optimal baseline models across multiple public datasets of relation extraction.
Neural Snowball for Few-Shot Relation Learning.Knowledge graphs typically undergo open-ended growth of new relations. This cannot be well handled by relation extraction that focuses on pre-defined relations with sufficient training data. To address new relations with few-shot instances, we propose a novel bootstrapping approach, Neural Snowball, to learn new relations by transferring semantic knowledge about existing relations. More specifically, we use Relational Siamese Networks (RSN) to learn the metric of relational similarities between instances based on existing relations and their labeled data. Afterwards, given a new relation and its few-shot instances, we use RSN to accumulate reliable instances from unlabeled corpora; these instances are used to train a relation classifier, which can further identify new facts of the new relation. The process is conducted iteratively like a snowball. Experiments show that our model can gather high-quality instances for better few-shot relation learning and achieves significant improvement compared to baselines. Codes and datasets are released on https://github.com/thunlp/Neural-Snowball.
Fine-tuning Pre-Trained Transformer Language Models to Distantly   Supervised Relation Extraction.Distantly supervised relation extraction is widely used to extract relational facts from text, but suffers from noisy labels. Current relation extraction methods try to alleviate the noise by multi-instance learning and by providing supporting linguistic and contextual information to more efficiently guide the relation classification. While achieving state-of-the-art results, we observed these models to be biased towards recognizing a limited set of relations with high precision, while ignoring those in the long tail. To address this gap, we utilize a pre-trained language model, the OpenAI Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) [Radford et al., 2018]. The GPT and similar models have been shown to capture semantic and syntactic features, and also a notable amount of "common-sense" knowledge, which we hypothesize are important features for recognizing a more diverse set of relations. By extending the GPT to the distantly supervised setting, and fine-tuning it on the NYT10 dataset, we show that it predicts a larger set of distinct relation types with high confidence. Manual and automated evaluation of our model shows that it achieves a state-of-the-art AUC score of 0.422 on the NYT10 dataset, and performs especially well at higher recall levels.
Dialogue-Based Relation Extraction.We present the first human-annotated dialogue-based relation extraction (RE) dataset DialogRE, aiming to support the prediction of relation(s) between two arguments that appear in a dialogue. We further offer DialogRE as a platform for studying cross-sentence RE as most facts span multiple sentences. We argue that speaker-related information plays a critical role in the proposed task, based on an analysis of similarities and differences between dialogue-based and traditional RE tasks. Considering the timeliness of communication in a dialogue, we design a new metric to evaluate the performance of RE methods in a conversational setting and investigate the performance of several representative RE methods on DialogRE. Experimental results demonstrate that a speaker-aware extension on the best-performing model leads to gains in both the standard and conversational evaluation settings. DialogRE is available at https://dataset.org/dialogre/.
CharacterBERT: Reconciling ELMo and BERT for Word-Level Open-Vocabulary   Representations From Characters.Due to the compelling improvements brought by BERT, many recent representation models adopted the Transformer architecture as their main building block, consequently inheriting the wordpiece tokenization system despite it not being intrinsically linked to the notion of Transformers. While this system is thought to achieve a good balance between the flexibility of characters and the efficiency of full words, using predefined wordpiece vocabularies from the general domain is not always suitable, especially when building models for specialized domains (e.g., the medical domain). Moreover, adopting a wordpiece tokenization shifts the focus from the word level to the subword level, making the models conceptually more complex and arguably less convenient in practice. For these reasons, we propose CharacterBERT, a new variant of BERT that drops the wordpiece system altogether and uses a Character-CNN module instead to represent entire words by consulting their characters. We show that this new model improves the performance of BERT on a variety of medical domain tasks while at the same time producing robust, word-level and open-vocabulary representations.
Generalizing Natural Language Analysis through Span-relation   Representations.Natural language processing covers a wide variety of tasks predicting syntax, semantics, and information content, and usually each type of output is generated with specially designed architectures. In this paper, we provide the simple insight that a great variety of tasks can be represented in a single unified format consisting of labeling spans and relations between spans, thus a single task-independent model can be used across different tasks. We perform extensive experiments to test this insight on 10 disparate tasks spanning dependency parsing (syntax), semantic role labeling (semantics), relation extraction (information content), aspect based sentiment analysis (sentiment), and many others, achieving performance comparable to state-of-the-art specialized models. We further demonstrate benefits of multi-task learning, and also show that the proposed method makes it easy to analyze differences and similarities in how the model handles different tasks. Finally, we convert these datasets into a unified format to build a benchmark, which provides a holistic testbed for evaluating future models for generalized natural language analysis.
Multi-task Learning with Sample Re-weighting for Machine Reading   Comprehension.We propose a multi-task learning framework to learn a joint Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) model that can be applied to a wide range of MRC tasks in different domains. Inspired by recent ideas of data selection in machine translation, we develop a novel sample re-weighting scheme to assign sample-specific weights to the loss. Empirical study shows that our approach can be applied to many existing MRC models. Combined with contextual representations from pre-trained language models (such as ELMo), we achieve new state-of-the-art results on a set of MRC benchmark datasets. We release our code at https://github.com/xycforgithub/MultiTask-MRC.
Stochastic Answer Networks for Machine Reading Comprehension.We propose a simple yet robust stochastic answer network (SAN) that simulates multi-step reasoning in machine reading comprehension. Compared to previous work such as ReasoNet which used reinforcement learning to determine the number of steps, the unique feature is the use of a kind of stochastic prediction dropout on the answer module (final layer) of the neural network during the training. We show that this simple trick improves robustness and achieves results competitive to the state-of-the-art on the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD), the Adversarial SQuAD, and the Microsoft MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset (MS MARCO).
FusionNet: Fusing via Fully-Aware Attention with Application to Machine   Comprehension.This paper introduces a new neural structure called FusionNet, which extends existing attention approaches from three perspectives. First, it puts forward a novel concept of "history of word" to characterize attention information from the lowest word-level embedding up to the highest semantic-level representation. Second, it introduces an improved attention scoring function that better utilizes the "history of word" concept. Third, it proposes a fully-aware multi-level attention mechanism to capture the complete information in one text (such as a question) and exploit it in its counterpart (such as context or passage) layer by layer. We apply FusionNet to the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) and it achieves the first position for both single and ensemble model on the official SQuAD leaderboard at the time of writing (Oct. 4th, 2017). Meanwhile, we verify the generalization of FusionNet with two adversarial SQuAD datasets and it sets up the new state-of-the-art on both datasets: on AddSent, FusionNet increases the best F1 metric from 46.6% to 51.4%; on AddOneSent, FusionNet boosts the best F1 metric from 56.0% to 60.7%.
MultiQA: An Empirical Investigation of Generalization and Transfer in   Reading Comprehension.A large number of reading comprehension (RC) datasets has been created recently, but little analysis has been done on whether they generalize to one another, and the extent to which existing datasets can be leveraged for improving performance on new ones. In this paper, we conduct such an investigation over ten RC datasets, training on one or more source RC datasets, and evaluating generalization, as well as transfer to a target RC dataset. We analyze the factors that contribute to generalization, and show that training on a source RC dataset and transferring to a target dataset substantially improves performance, even in the presence of powerful contextual representations from BERT (Devlin et al., 2019). We also find that training on multiple source RC datasets leads to robust generalization and transfer, and can reduce the cost of example collection for a new RC dataset. Following our analysis, we propose MultiQA, a BERT-based model, trained on multiple RC datasets, which leads to state-of-the-art performance on five RC datasets. We share our infrastructure for the benefit of the research community.
Extractive Summarization of Long Documents by Combining Global and Local   Context.In this paper, we propose a novel neural single document extractive summarization model for long documents, incorporating both the global context of the whole document and the local context within the current topic. We evaluate the model on two datasets of scientific papers, Pubmed and arXiv, where it outperforms previous work, both extractive and abstractive models, on ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2 and METEOR scores. We also show that, consistently with our goal, the benefits of our method become stronger as we apply it to longer documents. Rather surprisingly, an ablation study indicates that the benefits of our model seem to come exclusively from modeling the local context, even for the longest documents.
On Extractive and Abstractive Neural Document Summarization with   Transformer Language Models.We present a method to produce abstractive summaries of long documents that exceed several thousand words via neural abstractive summarization. We perform a simple extractive step before generating a summary, which is then used to condition the transformer language model on relevant information before being tasked with generating a summary. We show that this extractive step significantly improves summarization results. We also show that this approach produces more abstractive summaries compared to prior work that employs a copy mechanism while still achieving higher rouge scores. Note: The abstract above was not written by the authors, it was generated by one of the models presented in this paper.
DebateSum: A large-scale argument mining and summarization dataset.Prior work in Argument Mining frequently alludes to its potential applications in automatic debating systems. Despite this focus, almost no datasets or models exist which apply natural language processing techniques to problems found within competitive formal debate. To remedy this, we present the DebateSum dataset. DebateSum consists of 187,386 unique pieces of evidence with corresponding argument and extractive summaries. DebateSum was made using data compiled by competitors within the National Speech and Debate Association over a 7-year period. We train several transformer summarization models to benchmark summarization performance on DebateSum. We also introduce a set of fasttext word-vectors trained on DebateSum called debate2vec. Finally, we present a search engine for this dataset which is utilized extensively by members of the National Speech and Debate Association today. The DebateSum search engine is available to the public here: http://www.debate.cards
Neural Extractive Text Summarization with Syntactic Compression.Recent neural network approaches to summarization are largely either selection-based extraction or generation-based abstraction. In this work, we present a neural model for single-document summarization based on joint extraction and syntactic compression. Our model chooses sentences from the document, identifies possible compressions based on constituency parses, and scores those compressions with a neural model to produce the final summary. For learning, we construct oracle extractive-compressive summaries, then learn both of our components jointly with this supervision. Experimental results on the CNN/Daily Mail and New York Times datasets show that our model achieves strong performance (comparable to state-of-the-art systems) as evaluated by ROUGE. Moreover, our approach outperforms an off-the-shelf compression module, and human and manual evaluation shows that our model's output generally remains grammatical.
Revisiting Self-Training for Neural Sequence Generation.Self-training is one of the earliest and simplest semi-supervised methods. The key idea is to augment the original labeled dataset with unlabeled data paired with the model's prediction (i.e. the pseudo-parallel data). While self-training has been extensively studied on classification problems, in complex sequence generation tasks (e.g. machine translation) it is still unclear how self-training works due to the compositionality of the target space. In this work, we first empirically show that self-training is able to decently improve the supervised baseline on neural sequence generation tasks. Through careful examination of the performance gains, we find that the perturbation on the hidden states (i.e. dropout) is critical for self-training to benefit from the pseudo-parallel data, which acts as a regularizer and forces the model to yield close predictions for similar unlabeled inputs. Such effect helps the model correct some incorrect predictions on unlabeled data. To further encourage this mechanism, we propose to inject noise to the input space, resulting in a "noisy" version of self-training. Empirical study on standard machine translation and text summarization benchmarks shows that noisy self-training is able to effectively utilize unlabeled data and improve the performance of the supervised baseline by a large margin.
Seq2Sick: Evaluating the Robustness of Sequence-to-Sequence Models with   Adversarial Examples.Crafting adversarial examples has become an important technique to evaluate the robustness of deep neural networks (DNNs). However, most existing works focus on attacking the image classification problem since its input space is continuous and output space is finite.   In this paper, we study the much more challenging problem of crafting adversarial examples for sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models, whose inputs are discrete text strings and outputs have an almost infinite number of possibilities. To address the challenges caused by the discrete input space, we propose a projected gradient method combined with group lasso and gradient regularization. To handle the almost infinite output space, we design some novel loss functions to conduct non-overlapping attack and targeted keyword attack. We apply our algorithm to machine translation and text summarization tasks, and verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm: by changing less than 3 words, we can make seq2seq model to produce desired outputs with high success rates. On the other hand, we recognize that, compared with the well-evaluated CNN-based classifiers, seq2seq models are intrinsically more robust to adversarial attacks.
Multi-View Sequence-to-Sequence Models with Conversational Structure for   Abstractive Dialogue Summarization.Text summarization is one of the most challenging and interesting problems in NLP. Although much attention has been paid to summarizing structured text like news reports or encyclopedia articles, summarizing conversations---an essential part of human-human/machine interaction where most important pieces of information are scattered across various utterances of different speakers---remains relatively under-investigated. This work proposes a multi-view sequence-to-sequence model by first extracting conversational structures of unstructured daily chats from different views to represent conversations and then utilizing a multi-view decoder to incorporate different views to generate dialogue summaries. Experiments on a large-scale dialogue summarization corpus demonstrated that our methods significantly outperformed previous state-of-the-art models via both automatic evaluations and human judgment. We also discussed specific challenges that current approaches faced with this task. We have publicly released our code at https://github.com/GT-SALT/Multi-View-Seq2Seq.
Contrastive Attention Mechanism for Abstractive Sentence Summarization.We propose a contrastive attention mechanism to extend the sequence-to-sequence framework for abstractive sentence summarization task, which aims to generate a brief summary of a given source sentence. The proposed contrastive attention mechanism accommodates two categories of attention: one is the conventional attention that attends to relevant parts of the source sentence, the other is the opponent attention that attends to irrelevant or less relevant parts of the source sentence. Both attentions are trained in an opposite way so that the contribution from the conventional attention is encouraged and the contribution from the opponent attention is discouraged through a novel softmax and softmin functionality. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that, the proposed contrastive attention mechanism is more focused on the relevant parts for the summary than the conventional attention mechanism, and greatly advances the state-of-the-art performance on the abstractive sentence summarization task. We release the code at https://github.com/travel-go/Abstractive-Text-Summarization
Fast and Accurate Entity Recognition with Iterated Dilated Convolutions.Today when many practitioners run basic NLP on the entire web and large-volume traffic, faster methods are paramount to saving time and energy costs. Recent advances in GPU hardware have led to the emergence of bi-directional LSTMs as a standard method for obtaining per-token vector representations serving as input to labeling tasks such as NER (often followed by prediction in a linear-chain CRF). Though expressive and accurate, these models fail to fully exploit GPU parallelism, limiting their computational efficiency. This paper proposes a faster alternative to Bi-LSTMs for NER: Iterated Dilated Convolutional Neural Networks (ID-CNNs), which have better capacity than traditional CNNs for large context and structured prediction. Unlike LSTMs whose sequential processing on sentences of length N requires O(N) time even in the face of parallelism, ID-CNNs permit fixed-depth convolutions to run in parallel across entire documents. We describe a distinct combination of network structure, parameter sharing and training procedures that enable dramatic 14-20x test-time speedups while retaining accuracy comparable to the Bi-LSTM-CRF. Moreover, ID-CNNs trained to aggregate context from the entire document are even more accurate while maintaining 8x faster test time speeds.
Entity, Relation, and Event Extraction with Contextualized Span   Representations.We examine the capabilities of a unified, multi-task framework for three information extraction tasks: named entity recognition, relation extraction, and event extraction. Our framework (called DyGIE++) accomplishes all tasks by enumerating, refining, and scoring text spans designed to capture local (within-sentence) and global (cross-sentence) context. Our framework achieves state-of-the-art results across all tasks, on four datasets from a variety of domains. We perform experiments comparing different techniques to construct span representations. Contextualized embeddings like BERT perform well at capturing relationships among entities in the same or adjacent sentences, while dynamic span graph updates model long-range cross-sentence relationships. For instance, propagating span representations via predicted coreference links can enable the model to disambiguate challenging entity mentions. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/dwadden/dygiepp and can be easily adapted for new tasks or datasets.
Simplify the Usage of Lexicon in Chinese NER.Recently, many works have tried to augment the performance of Chinese named entity recognition (NER) using word lexicons. As a representative, Lattice-LSTM (Zhang and Yang, 2018) has achieved new benchmark results on several public Chinese NER datasets. However, Lattice-LSTM has a complex model architecture. This limits its application in many industrial areas where real-time NER responses are needed.   In this work, we propose a simple but effective method for incorporating the word lexicon into the character representations. This method avoids designing a complicated sequence modeling architecture, and for any neural NER model, it requires only subtle adjustment of the character representation layer to introduce the lexicon information. Experimental studies on four benchmark Chinese NER datasets show that our method achieves an inference speed up to 6.15 times faster than those of state-ofthe-art methods, along with a better performance. The experimental results also show that the proposed method can be easily incorporated with pre-trained models like BERT.
Structured prediction models for RNN based sequence labeling in clinical   text.Sequence labeling is a widely used method for named entity recognition and information extraction from unstructured natural language data. In clinical domain one major application of sequence labeling involves extraction of medical entities such as medication, indication, and side-effects from Electronic Health Record narratives. Sequence labeling in this domain, presents its own set of challenges and objectives. In this work we experimented with various CRF based structured learning models with Recurrent Neural Networks. We extend the previously studied LSTM-CRF models with explicit modeling of pairwise potentials. We also propose an approximate version of skip-chain CRF inference with RNN potentials. We use these methodologies for structured prediction in order to improve the exact phrase detection of various medical entities.
A Tidy Data Model for Natural Language Processing using cleanNLP.The package cleanNLP provides a set of fast tools for converting a textual corpus into a set of normalized tables. The underlying natural language processing pipeline utilizes Stanford's CoreNLP library, exposing a number of annotation tasks for text written in English, French, German, and Spanish. Annotators include tokenization, part of speech tagging, named entity recognition, entity linking, sentiment analysis, dependency parsing, coreference resolution, and information extraction.
Effective Use of Bidirectional Language Modeling for Transfer Learning   in Biomedical Named Entity Recognition.Biomedical named entity recognition (NER) is a fundamental task in text mining of medical documents and has many applications. Deep learning based approaches to this task have been gaining increasing attention in recent years as their parameters can be learned end-to-end without the need for hand-engineered features. However, these approaches rely on high-quality labeled data, which is expensive to obtain. To address this issue, we investigate how to use unlabeled text data to improve the performance of NER models. Specifically, we train a bidirectional language model (BiLM) on unlabeled data and transfer its weights to "pretrain" an NER model with the same architecture as the BiLM, which results in a better parameter initialization of the NER model. We evaluate our approach on four benchmark datasets for biomedical NER and show that it leads to a substantial improvement in the F1 scores compared with the state-of-the-art approaches. We also show that BiLM weight transfer leads to a faster model training and the pretrained model requires fewer training examples to achieve a particular F1 score.
Few-shot Learning for Named Entity Recognition in Medical Text.Deep neural network models have recently achieved state-of-the-art performance gains in a variety of natural language processing (NLP) tasks (Young, Hazarika, Poria, & Cambria, 2017). However, these gains rely on the availability of large amounts of annotated examples, without which state-of-the-art performance is rarely achievable. This is especially inconvenient for the many NLP fields where annotated examples are scarce, such as medical text. To improve NLP models in this situation, we evaluate five improvements on named entity recognition (NER) tasks when only ten annotated examples are available: (1) layer-wise initialization with pre-trained weights, (2) hyperparameter tuning, (3) combining pre-training data, (4) custom word embeddings, and (5) optimizing out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words. Experimental results show that the F1 score of 69.3% achievable by state-of-the-art models can be improved to 78.87%.
A Context-aware Natural Language Generator for Dialogue Systems.We present a novel natural language generation system for spoken dialogue systems capable of entraining (adapting) to users' way of speaking, providing contextually appropriate responses. The generator is based on recurrent neural networks and the sequence-to-sequence approach. It is fully trainable from data which include preceding context along with responses to be generated. We show that the context-aware generator yields significant improvements over the baseline in both automatic metrics and a human pairwise preference test.
Paraphrase Generation with Latent Bag of Words.Paraphrase generation is a longstanding important problem in natural language processing.   In addition, recent progress in deep generative models has shown promising results on discrete latent variables for text generation.   Inspired by variational autoencoders with discrete latent structures, in this work, we propose a latent bag of words (BOW) model for paraphrase generation.   We ground the semantics of a discrete latent variable by the BOW from the target sentences.   We use this latent variable to build a fully differentiable content planning and surface realization model.   Specifically, we use source words to predict their neighbors and model the target BOW with a mixture of softmax.   We use Gumbel top-k reparameterization to perform differentiable subset sampling from the predicted BOW distribution.   We retrieve the sampled word embeddings and use them to augment the decoder and guide its generation search space.   Our latent BOW model not only enhances the decoder, but also exhibits clear interpretability.   We show the model interpretability with regard to \emph{(i)} unsupervised learning of word neighbors \emph{(ii)} the step-by-step generation procedure.   Extensive experiments demonstrate the transparent and effective generation process of this model.\footnote{Our code can be found at \url{https://github.com/FranxYao/dgm_latent_bow}}
Graph2Seq: Graph to Sequence Learning with Attention-based Neural   Networks.The celebrated Sequence to Sequence learning (Seq2Seq) technique and its numerous variants achieve excellent performance on many tasks. However, many machine learning tasks have inputs naturally represented as graphs; existing Seq2Seq models face a significant challenge in achieving accurate conversion from graph form to the appropriate sequence. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel general end-to-end graph-to-sequence neural encoder-decoder model that maps an input graph to a sequence of vectors and uses an attention-based LSTM method to decode the target sequence from these vectors. Our method first generates the node and graph embeddings using an improved graph-based neural network with a novel aggregation strategy to incorporate edge direction information in the node embeddings. We further introduce an attention mechanism that aligns node embeddings and the decoding sequence to better cope with large graphs. Experimental results on bAbI, Shortest Path, and Natural Language Generation tasks demonstrate that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance and significantly outperforms existing graph neural networks, Seq2Seq, and Tree2Seq models; using the proposed bi-directional node embedding aggregation strategy, the model can converge rapidly to the optimal performance.
Hierarchical Attention: What Really Counts in Various NLP Tasks.Attention mechanisms in sequence to sequence models have shown great ability and wonderful performance in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as sentence embedding, text generation, machine translation, machine reading comprehension, etc. Unfortunately, existing attention mechanisms only learn either high-level or low-level features. In this paper, we think that the lack of hierarchical mechanisms is a bottleneck in improving the performance of the attention mechanisms, and propose a novel Hierarchical Attention Mechanism (Ham) based on the weighted sum of different layers of a multi-level attention. Ham achieves a state-of-the-art BLEU score of 0.26 on Chinese poem generation task and a nearly 6.5% averaged improvement compared with the existing machine reading comprehension models such as BIDAF and Match-LSTM. Furthermore, our experiments and theorems reveal that Ham has greater generalization and representation ability than existing attention mechanisms.
Towards Knowledge-Based Personalized Product Description Generation in   E-commerce.Quality product descriptions are critical for providing competitive customer experience in an e-commerce platform. An accurate and attractive description not only helps customers make an informed decision but also improves the likelihood of purchase. However, crafting a successful product description is tedious and highly time-consuming. Due to its importance, automating the product description generation has attracted considerable interests from both research and industrial communities. Existing methods mainly use templates or statistical methods, and their performance could be rather limited. In this paper, we explore a new way to generate the personalized product description by combining the power of neural networks and knowledge base. Specifically, we propose a KnOwledge Based pErsonalized (or KOBE) product description generation model in the context of e-commerce. In KOBE, we extend the encoder-decoder framework, the Transformer, to a sequence modeling formulation using self-attention. In order to make the description both informative and personalized, KOBE considers a variety of important factors during text generation, including product aspects, user categories, and knowledge base, etc. Experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate that the proposed method out-performs the baseline on various metrics. KOBE can achieve an improvement of 9.7% over state-of-the-arts in terms of BLEU. We also present several case studies as the anecdotal evidence to further prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The framework has been deployed in Taobao, the largest online e-commerce platform in China.
Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio Management.In this thesis, we develop a comprehensive account of the expressive power, modelling efficiency, and performance advantages of so-called trading agents (i.e., Deep Soft Recurrent Q-Network (DSRQN) and Mixture of Score Machines (MSM)), based on both traditional system identification (model-based approach) as well as on context-independent agents (model-free approach). The analysis provides conclusive support for the ability of model-free reinforcement learning methods to act as universal trading agents, which are not only capable of reducing the computational and memory complexity (owing to their linear scaling with the size of the universe), but also serve as generalizing strategies across assets and markets, regardless of the trading universe on which they have been trained. The relatively low volume of daily returns in financial market data is addressed via data augmentation (a generative approach) and a choice of pre-training strategies, both of which are validated against current state-of-the-art models. For rigour, a risk-sensitive framework which includes transaction costs is considered, and its performance advantages are demonstrated in a variety of scenarios, from synthetic time-series (sinusoidal, sawtooth and chirp waves), simulated market series (surrogate data based), through to real market data (S\&P 500 and EURO STOXX 50). The analysis and simulations confirm the superiority of universal model-free reinforcement learning agents over current portfolio management model in asset allocation strategies, with the achieved performance advantage of as much as 9.2\% in annualized cumulative returns and 13.4\% in annualized Sharpe Ratio.
Learning Representations by Maximizing Mutual Information Across Views.We propose an approach to self-supervised representation learning based on maximizing mutual information between features extracted from multiple views of a shared context. For example, one could produce multiple views of a local spatio-temporal context by observing it from different locations (e.g., camera positions within a scene), and via different modalities (e.g., tactile, auditory, or visual). Or, an ImageNet image could provide a context from which one produces multiple views by repeatedly applying data augmentation. Maximizing mutual information between features extracted from these views requires capturing information about high-level factors whose influence spans multiple views -- e.g., presence of certain objects or occurrence of certain events.   Following our proposed approach, we develop a model which learns image representations that significantly outperform prior methods on the tasks we consider. Most notably, using self-supervised learning, our model learns representations which achieve 68.1% accuracy on ImageNet using standard linear evaluation. This beats prior results by over 12% and concurrent results by 7%. When we extend our model to use mixture-based representations, segmentation behaviour emerges as a natural side-effect. Our code is available online: https://github.com/Philip-Bachman/amdim-public.
Learn to Augment: Joint Data Augmentation and Network Optimization for   Text Recognition.Handwritten text and scene text suffer from various shapes and distorted patterns. Thus training a robust recognition model requires a large amount of data to cover diversity as much as possible. In contrast to data collection and annotation, data augmentation is a low cost way. In this paper, we propose a new method for text image augmentation. Different from traditional augmentation methods such as rotation, scaling and perspective transformation, our proposed augmentation method is designed to learn proper and efficient data augmentation which is more effective and specific for training a robust recognizer. By using a set of custom fiducial points, the proposed augmentation method is flexible and controllable. Furthermore, we bridge the gap between the isolated processes of data augmentation and network optimization by joint learning. An agent network learns from the output of the recognition network and controls the fiducial points to generate more proper training samples for the recognition network. Extensive experiments on various benchmarks, including regular scene text, irregular scene text and handwritten text, show that the proposed augmentation and the joint learning methods significantly boost the performance of the recognition networks. A general toolkit for geometric augmentation is available.
XLSor: A Robust and Accurate Lung Segmentor on Chest X-Rays Using   Criss-Cross Attention and Customized Radiorealistic Abnormalities Generation.This paper proposes a novel framework for lung segmentation in chest X-rays. It consists of two key contributions, a criss-cross attention based segmentation network and radiorealistic chest X-ray image synthesis (i.e. a synthesized radiograph that appears anatomically realistic) for data augmentation. The criss-cross attention modules capture rich global contextual information in both horizontal and vertical directions for all the pixels thus facilitating accurate lung segmentation. To reduce the manual annotation burden and to train a robust lung segmentor that can be adapted to pathological lungs with hazy lung boundaries, an image-to-image translation module is employed to synthesize radiorealistic abnormal CXRs from the source of normal ones for data augmentation. The lung masks of synthetic abnormal CXRs are propagated from the segmentation results of their normal counterparts, and then serve as pseudo masks for robust segmentor training. In addition, we annotate 100 CXRs with lung masks on a more challenging NIH Chest X-ray dataset containing both posterioranterior and anteroposterior views for evaluation. Extensive experiments validate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed framework. The code and data can be found from https://github.com/rsummers11/CADLab/tree/master/Lung_Segmentation_XLSor .
Anatomy-specific classification of medical images using deep   convolutional nets.Automated classification of human anatomy is an important prerequisite for many computer-aided diagnosis systems. The spatial complexity and variability of anatomy throughout the human body makes classification difficult. "Deep learning" methods such as convolutional networks (ConvNets) outperform other state-of-the-art methods in image classification tasks. In this work, we present a method for organ- or body-part-specific anatomical classification of medical images acquired using computed tomography (CT) with ConvNets. We train a ConvNet, using 4,298 separate axial 2D key-images to learn 5 anatomical classes. Key-images were mined from a hospital PACS archive, using a set of 1,675 patients. We show that a data augmentation approach can help to enrich the data set and improve classification performance. Using ConvNets and data augmentation, we achieve anatomy-specific classification error of 5.9 % and area-under-the-curve (AUC) values of an average of 0.998 in testing. We demonstrate that deep learning can be used to train very reliable and accurate classifiers that could initialize further computer-aided diagnosis.
Appearance and Pose-Conditioned Human Image Generation using Deformable   GANs.In this paper, we address the problem of generating person images conditioned on both pose and appearance information. Specifically, given an image xa of a person and a target pose P(xb), extracted from a different image xb, we synthesize a new image of that person in pose P(xb), while preserving the visual details in xa. In order to deal with pixel-to-pixel misalignments caused by the pose differences between P(xa) and P(xb), we introduce deformable skip connections in the generator of our Generative Adversarial Network. Moreover, a nearest-neighbour loss is proposed instead of the common L1 and L2 losses in order to match the details of the generated image with the target image. Quantitative and qualitative results, using common datasets and protocols recently proposed for this task, show that our approach is competitive with respect to the state of the art. Moreover, we conduct an extensive evaluation using off-the-shell person re-identification (Re-ID) systems trained with person-generation based augmented data, which is one of the main important applications for this task. Our experiments show that our Deformable GANs can significantly boost the Re-ID accuracy and are even better than data-augmentation methods specifically trained using Re-ID losses.
Rationalizing Neural Predictions.Prediction without justification has limited applicability. As a remedy, we learn to extract pieces of input text as justifications -- rationales -- that are tailored to be short and coherent, yet sufficient for making the same prediction. Our approach combines two modular components, generator and encoder, which are trained to operate well together. The generator specifies a distribution over text fragments as candidate rationales and these are passed through the encoder for prediction. Rationales are never given during training. Instead, the model is regularized by desiderata for rationales. We evaluate the approach on multi-aspect sentiment analysis against manually annotated test cases. Our approach outperforms attention-based baseline by a significant margin. We also successfully illustrate the method on the question retrieval task.
Utilizing BERT for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing   Auxiliary Sentence.Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA), which aims to identify fine-grained opinion polarity towards a specific aspect, is a challenging subtask of sentiment analysis (SA). In this paper, we construct an auxiliary sentence from the aspect and convert ABSA to a sentence-pair classification task, such as question answering (QA) and natural language inference (NLI). We fine-tune the pre-trained model from BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results on SentiHood and SemEval-2014 Task 4 datasets.
Investigating Capsule Networks with Dynamic Routing for Text   Classification.In this study, we explore capsule networks with dynamic routing for text classification. We propose three strategies to stabilize the dynamic routing process to alleviate the disturbance of some noise capsules which may contain "background" information or have not been successfully trained. A series of experiments are conducted with capsule networks on six text classification benchmarks. Capsule networks achieve state of the art on 4 out of 6 datasets, which shows the effectiveness of capsule networks for text classification. We additionally show that capsule networks exhibit significant improvement when transfer single-label to multi-label text classification over strong baseline methods. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that capsule networks have been empirically investigated for text modeling.
Baseline Needs More Love: On Simple Word-Embedding-Based Models and   Associated Pooling Mechanisms.Many deep learning architectures have been proposed to model the compositionality in text sequences, requiring a substantial number of parameters and expensive computations. However, there has not been a rigorous evaluation regarding the added value of sophisticated compositional functions. In this paper, we conduct a point-by-point comparative study between Simple Word-Embedding-based Models (SWEMs), consisting of parameter-free pooling operations, relative to word-embedding-based RNN/CNN models. Surprisingly, SWEMs exhibit comparable or even superior performance in the majority of cases considered. Based upon this understanding, we propose two additional pooling strategies over learned word embeddings: (i) a max-pooling operation for improved interpretability; and (ii) a hierarchical pooling operation, which preserves spatial (n-gram) information within text sequences. We present experiments on 17 datasets encompassing three tasks: (i) (long) document classification; (ii) text sequence matching; and (iii) short text tasks, including classification and tagging. The source code and datasets can be obtained from https:// github.com/dinghanshen/SWEM.
Weakly-Supervised Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Joint   Aspect-Sentiment Topic Embedding.Aspect-based sentiment analysis of review texts is of great value for understanding user feedback in a fine-grained manner. It has in general two sub-tasks: (i) extracting aspects from each review, and (ii) classifying aspect-based reviews by sentiment polarity. In this paper, we propose a weakly-supervised approach for aspect-based sentiment analysis, which uses only a few keywords describing each aspect/sentiment without using any labeled examples. Existing methods are either designed only for one of the sub-tasks, neglecting the benefit of coupling both, or are based on topic models that may contain overlapping concepts. We propose to first learn <sentiment, aspect> joint topic embeddings in the word embedding space by imposing regularizations to encourage topic distinctiveness, and then use neural models to generalize the word-level discriminative information by pre-training the classifiers with embedding-based predictions and self-training them on unlabeled data. Our comprehensive performance analysis shows that our method generates quality joint topics and outperforms the baselines significantly (7.4% and 5.1% F1-score gain on average for aspect and sentiment classification respectively) on benchmark datasets. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/teapot123/JASen.
Document Informed Neural Autoregressive Topic Models with Distributional   Prior.We address two challenges in topic models: (1) Context information around words helps in determining their actual meaning, e.g., "networks" used in the contexts "artificial neural networks" vs. "biological neuron networks". Generative topic models infer topic-word distributions, taking no or only little context into account. Here, we extend a neural autoregressive topic model to exploit the full context information around words in a document in a language modeling fashion. The proposed model is named as iDocNADE. (2) Due to the small number of word occurrences (i.e., lack of context) in short text and data sparsity in a corpus of few documents, the application of topic models is challenging on such texts. Therefore, we propose a simple and efficient way of incorporating external knowledge into neural autoregressive topic models: we use embeddings as a distributional prior. The proposed variants are named as DocNADEe and iDocNADEe.   We present novel neural autoregressive topic model variants that consistently outperform state-of-the-art generative topic models in terms of generalization, interpretability (topic coherence) and applicability (retrieval and classification) over 7 long-text and 8 short-text datasets from diverse domains.
Discriminative Topic Modeling with Logistic LDA.Despite many years of research into latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), applying LDA to collections of non-categorical items is still challenging. Yet many problems with much richer data share a similar structure and could benefit from the vast literature on LDA. We propose logistic LDA, a novel discriminative variant of latent Dirichlet allocation which is easy to apply to arbitrary inputs. In particular, our model can easily be applied to groups of images, arbitrary text embeddings, and integrates well with deep neural networks. Although it is a discriminative model, we show that logistic LDA can learn from unlabeled data in an unsupervised manner by exploiting the group structure present in the data. In contrast to other recent topic models designed to handle arbitrary inputs, our model does not sacrifice the interpretability and principled motivation of LDA.
Improving Neural Topic Models using Knowledge Distillation.Topic models are often used to identify human-interpretable topics to help make sense of large document collections. We use knowledge distillation to combine the best attributes of probabilistic topic models and pretrained transformers. Our modular method can be straightforwardly applied with any neural topic model to improve topic quality, which we demonstrate using two models having disparate architectures, obtaining state-of-the-art topic coherence. We show that our adaptable framework not only improves performance in the aggregate over all estimated topics, as is commonly reported, but also in head-to-head comparisons of aligned topics.
HiTR: Hierarchical Topic Model Re-estimation for Measuring Topical   Diversity of Documents.A high degree of topical diversity is often considered to be an important characteristic of interesting text documents. A recent proposal for measuring topical diversity identifies three distributions for assessing the diversity of documents: distributions of words within documents, words within topics, and topics within documents. Topic models play a central role in this approach and, hence, their quality is crucial to the efficacy of measuring topical diversity. The quality of topic models is affected by two causes: generality and impurity of topics. General topics only include common information of a background corpus and are assigned to most of the documents. Impure topics contain words that are not related to the topic. Impurity lowers the interpretability of topic models. Impure topics are likely to get assigned to documents erroneously. We propose a hierarchical re-estimation process aimed at removing generality and impurity. Our approach has three re-estimation components: (1) document re-estimation, which removes general words from the documents; (2) topic re-estimation, which re-estimates the distribution over words of each topic; and (3) topic assignment re-estimation, which re-estimates for each document its distributions over topics. For measuring topical diversity of text documents, our HiTR approach improves over the state-of-the-art measured on PubMed dataset.
Topic Modeling on Health Journals with Regularized Variational Inference.Topic modeling enables exploration and compact representation of a corpus. The CaringBridge (CB) dataset is a massive collection of journals written by patients and caregivers during a health crisis. Topic modeling on the CB dataset, however, is challenging due to the asynchronous nature of multiple authors writing about their health journeys. To overcome this challenge we introduce the Dynamic Author-Persona topic model (DAP), a probabilistic graphical model designed for temporal corpora with multiple authors. The novelty of the DAP model lies in its representation of authors by a persona --- where personas capture the propensity to write about certain topics over time. Further, we present a regularized variational inference algorithm, which we use to encourage the DAP model's personas to be distinct. Our results show significant improvements over competing topic models --- particularly after regularization, and highlight the DAP model's unique ability to capture common journeys shared by different authors.
A Survey on Text Classification: From Shallow to Deep Learning.Text classification is the most fundamental and essential task in natural language processing. The last decade has seen a surge of research in this area due to the unprecedented success of deep learning. Numerous methods, datasets, and evaluation metrics have been proposed in the literature, raising the need for a comprehensive and updated survey. This paper fills the gap by reviewing the state of the art approaches from 1961 to 2020, focusing on models from shallow to deep learning. We create a taxonomy for text classification according to the text involved and the models used for feature extraction and classification. We then discuss each of these categories in detail, dealing with both the technical developments and benchmark datasets that support tests of predictions. A comprehensive comparison between different techniques, as well as identifying the pros and cons of various evaluation metrics are also provided in this survey. Finally, we conclude by summarizing key implications, future research directions, and the challenges facing the research area.
Deep Learning Based Text Classification: A Comprehensive Review.Deep learning based models have surpassed classical machine learning based approaches in various text classification tasks, including sentiment analysis, news categorization, question answering, and natural language inference. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of more than 150 deep learning based models for text classification developed in recent years, and discuss their technical contributions, similarities, and strengths. We also provide a summary of more than 40 popular datasets widely used for text classification. Finally, we provide a quantitative analysis of the performance of different deep learning models on popular benchmarks, and discuss future research directions.
How to Fine-Tune BERT for Text Classification?.Language model pre-training has proven to be useful in learning universal language representations. As a state-of-the-art language model pre-training model, BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) has achieved amazing results in many language understanding tasks. In this paper, we conduct exhaustive experiments to investigate different fine-tuning methods of BERT on text classification task and provide a general solution for BERT fine-tuning. Finally, the proposed solution obtains new state-of-the-art results on eight widely-studied text classification datasets.
Regularizing Model Complexity and Label Structure for Multi-Label Text   Classification.Multi-label text classification is a popular machine learning task where each document is assigned with multiple relevant labels. This task is challenging due to high dimensional features and correlated labels. Multi-label text classifiers need to be carefully regularized to prevent the severe over-fitting in the high dimensional space, and also need to take into account label dependencies in order to make accurate predictions under uncertainty. We demonstrate significant and practical improvement by carefully regularizing the model complexity during training phase, and also regularizing the label search space during prediction phase. Specifically, we regularize the classifier training using Elastic-net (L1+L2) penalty for reducing model complexity/size, and employ early stopping to prevent overfitting. At prediction time, we apply support inference to restrict the search space to label sets encountered in the training set, and F-optimizer GFM to make optimal predictions for the F1 metric. We show that although support inference only provides density estimations on existing label combinations, when combined with GFM predictor, the algorithm can output unseen label combinations. Taken collectively, our experiments show state of the art results on many benchmark datasets. Beyond performance and practical contributions, we make some interesting observations. Contrary to the prior belief, which deems support inference as purely an approximate inference procedure, we show that support inference acts as a strong regularizer on the label prediction structure. It allows the classifier to take into account label dependencies during prediction even if the classifiers had not modeled any label dependencies during training.
Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Text Classification.The dominant approach for many NLP tasks are recurrent neural networks, in particular LSTMs, and convolutional neural networks. However, these architectures are rather shallow in comparison to the deep convolutional networks which have pushed the state-of-the-art in computer vision. We present a new architecture (VDCNN) for text processing which operates directly at the character level and uses only small convolutions and pooling operations. We are able to show that the performance of this model increases with depth: using up to 29 convolutional layers, we report improvements over the state-of-the-art on several public text classification tasks. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that very deep convolutional nets have been applied to text processing.
An Empirical Evaluation of Generic Convolutional and Recurrent Networks   for Sequence Modeling.For most deep learning practitioners, sequence modeling is synonymous with recurrent networks. Yet recent results indicate that convolutional architectures can outperform recurrent networks on tasks such as audio synthesis and machine translation. Given a new sequence modeling task or dataset, which architecture should one use? We conduct a systematic evaluation of generic convolutional and recurrent architectures for sequence modeling. The models are evaluated across a broad range of standard tasks that are commonly used to benchmark recurrent networks. Our results indicate that a simple convolutional architecture outperforms canonical recurrent networks such as LSTMs across a diverse range of tasks and datasets, while demonstrating longer effective memory. We conclude that the common association between sequence modeling and recurrent networks should be reconsidered, and convolutional networks should be regarded as a natural starting point for sequence modeling tasks. To assist related work, we have made code available at http://github.com/locuslab/TCN .
Pythia: AI-assisted Code Completion System.In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end approach for AI-assisted code completion called Pythia. It generates ranked lists of method and API recommendations which can be used by software developers at edit time. The system is currently deployed as part of Intellicode extension in Visual Studio Code IDE. Pythia exploits state-of-the-art large-scale deep learning models trained on code contexts extracted from abstract syntax trees. It is designed to work at a high throughput predicting the best matching code completions on the order of 100 $ms$.   We describe the architecture of the system, perform comparisons to frequency-based approach and invocation-based Markov Chain language model, and discuss challenges serving Pythia models on lightweight client devices.   The offline evaluation results obtained on 2700 Python open source software GitHub repositories show a top-5 accuracy of 92\%, surpassing the baseline models by 20\% averaged over classes, for both intra and cross-project settings.
Knowledge Representation Learning: A Quantitative Review.Knowledge representation learning (KRL) aims to represent entities and relations in knowledge graph in low-dimensional semantic space, which have been widely used in massive knowledge-driven tasks. In this article, we introduce the reader to the motivations for KRL, and overview existing approaches for KRL. Afterwards, we extensively conduct and quantitative comparison and analysis of several typical KRL methods on three evaluation tasks of knowledge acquisition including knowledge graph completion, triple classification, and relation extraction. We also review the real-world applications of KRL, such as language modeling, question answering, information retrieval, and recommender systems. Finally, we discuss the remaining challenges and outlook the future directions for KRL. The codes and datasets used in the experiments can be found in https://github.com/thunlp/OpenKE.
BioMegatron: Larger Biomedical Domain Language Model.There has been an influx of biomedical domain-specific language models, showing language models pre-trained on biomedical text perform better on biomedical domain benchmarks than those trained on general domain text corpora such as Wikipedia and Books. Yet, most works do not study the factors affecting each domain language application deeply. Additionally, the study of model size on domain-specific models has been mostly missing. We empirically study and evaluate several factors that can affect performance on domain language applications, such as the sub-word vocabulary set, model size, pre-training corpus, and domain transfer. We show consistent improvements on benchmarks with our larger BioMegatron model trained on a larger domain corpus, contributing to our understanding of domain language model applications. We demonstrate noticeable improvements over the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) on standard biomedical NLP benchmarks of named entity recognition, relation extraction, and question answering. Model checkpoints and code are available at [https://ngc.nvidia.com] and [https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo].
Improving Neural Language Models with a Continuous Cache.We propose an extension to neural network language models to adapt their prediction to the recent history. Our model is a simplified version of memory augmented networks, which stores past hidden activations as memory and accesses them through a dot product with the current hidden activation. This mechanism is very efficient and scales to very large memory sizes. We also draw a link between the use of external memory in neural network and cache models used with count based language models. We demonstrate on several language model datasets that our approach performs significantly better than recent memory augmented networks.
Structured Content Preservation for Unsupervised Text Style Transfer.Text style transfer aims to modify the style of a sentence while keeping its content unchanged. Recent style transfer systems often fail to faithfully preserve the content after changing the style. This paper proposes a structured content preserving model that leverages linguistic information in the structured fine-grained supervisions to better preserve the style-independent content during style transfer. In particular, we achieve the goal by devising rich model objectives based on both the sentence's lexical information and a language model that conditions on content. The resulting model therefore is encouraged to retain the semantic meaning of the target sentences. We perform extensive experiments that compare our model to other existing approaches in the tasks of sentiment and political slant transfer. Our model achieves significant improvement in terms of both content preservation and style transfer in automatic and human evaluation.
Unsupervised Text Style Transfer using Language Models as Discriminators.Binary classifiers are often employed as discriminators in GAN-based unsupervised style transfer systems to ensure that transferred sentences are similar to sentences in the target domain. One difficulty with this approach is that the error signal provided by the discriminator can be unstable and is sometimes insufficient to train the generator to produce fluent language. In this paper, we propose a new technique that uses a target domain language model as the discriminator, providing richer and more stable token-level feedback during the learning process. We train the generator to minimize the negative log likelihood (NLL) of generated sentences, evaluated by the language model. By using a continuous approximation of discrete sampling under the generator, our model can be trained using back-propagation in an end- to-end fashion. Moreover, our empirical results show that when using a language model as a structured discriminator, it is possible to forgo adversarial steps during training, making the process more stable. We compare our model with previous work using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) as discriminators and show that our approach leads to improved performance on three tasks: word substitution decipherment, sentiment modification, and related language translation.
Multilingual End-to-End Speech Translation.In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective framework for multilingual end-to-end speech translation (ST), in which speech utterances in source languages are directly translated to the desired target languages with a universal sequence-to-sequence architecture. While multilingual models have shown to be useful for automatic speech recognition (ASR) and machine translation (MT), this is the first time they are applied to the end-to-end ST problem. We show the effectiveness of multilingual end-to-end ST in two scenarios: one-to-many and many-to-many translations with publicly available data. We experimentally confirm that multilingual end-to-end ST models significantly outperform bilingual ones in both scenarios. The generalization of multilingual training is also evaluated in a transfer learning scenario to a very low-resource language pair. All of our codes and the database are publicly available to encourage further research in this emergent multilingual ST topic.
A Comparative Study on Transformer vs RNN in Speech Applications.Sequence-to-sequence models have been widely used in end-to-end speech processing, for example, automatic speech recognition (ASR), speech translation (ST), and text-to-speech (TTS). This paper focuses on an emergent sequence-to-sequence model called Transformer, which achieves state-of-the-art performance in neural machine translation and other natural language processing applications. We undertook intensive studies in which we experimentally compared and analyzed Transformer and conventional recurrent neural networks (RNN) in a total of 15 ASR, one multilingual ASR, one ST, and two TTS benchmarks. Our experiments revealed various training tips and significant performance benefits obtained with Transformer for each task including the surprising superiority of Transformer in 13/15 ASR benchmarks in comparison with RNN. We are preparing to release Kaldi-style reproducible recipes using open source and publicly available datasets for all the ASR, ST, and TTS tasks for the community to succeed our exciting outcomes.
Margin-based Parallel Corpus Mining with Multilingual Sentence   Embeddings.Machine translation is highly sensitive to the size and quality of the training data, which has led to an increasing interest in collecting and filtering large parallel corpora. In this paper, we propose a new method for this task based on multilingual sentence embeddings. In contrast to previous approaches, which rely on nearest neighbor retrieval with a hard threshold over cosine similarity, our proposed method accounts for the scale inconsistencies of this measure, considering the margin between a given sentence pair and its closest candidates instead. Our experiments show large improvements over existing methods. We outperform the best published results on the BUCC mining task and the UN reconstruction task by more than 10 F1 and 30 precision points, respectively. Filtering the English-German ParaCrawl corpus with our approach, we obtain 31.2 BLEU points on newstest2014, an improvement of more than one point over the best official filtered version.
An Empirical Evaluation of Generic Convolutional and Recurrent Networks   for Sequence Modeling.For most deep learning practitioners, sequence modeling is synonymous with recurrent networks. Yet recent results indicate that convolutional architectures can outperform recurrent networks on tasks such as audio synthesis and machine translation. Given a new sequence modeling task or dataset, which architecture should one use? We conduct a systematic evaluation of generic convolutional and recurrent architectures for sequence modeling. The models are evaluated across a broad range of standard tasks that are commonly used to benchmark recurrent networks. Our results indicate that a simple convolutional architecture outperforms canonical recurrent networks such as LSTMs across a diverse range of tasks and datasets, while demonstrating longer effective memory. We conclude that the common association between sequence modeling and recurrent networks should be reconsidered, and convolutional networks should be regarded as a natural starting point for sequence modeling tasks. To assist related work, we have made code available at http://github.com/locuslab/TCN .
Segmental Recurrent Neural Networks.We introduce segmental recurrent neural networks (SRNNs) which define, given an input sequence, a joint probability distribution over segmentations of the input and labelings of the segments. Representations of the input segments (i.e., contiguous subsequences of the input) are computed by encoding their constituent tokens using bidirectional recurrent neural nets, and these "segment embeddings" are used to define compatibility scores with output labels. These local compatibility scores are integrated using a global semi-Markov conditional random field. Both fully supervised training -- in which segment boundaries and labels are observed -- as well as partially supervised training -- in which segment boundaries are latent -- are straightforward. Experiments on handwriting recognition and joint Chinese word segmentation/POS tagging show that, compared to models that do not explicitly represent segments such as BIO tagging schemes and connectionist temporal classification (CTC), SRNNs obtain substantially higher accuracies.
MICE: Mining Idioms with Contextual Embeddings.Idiomatic expressions can be problematic for natural language processing applications as their meaning cannot be inferred from their constituting words. A lack of successful methodological approaches and sufficiently large datasets prevents the development of machine learning approaches for detecting idioms, especially for expressions that do not occur in the training set. We present an approach, called MICE, that uses contextual embeddings for that purpose. We present a new dataset of multi-word expressions with literal and idiomatic meanings and use it to train a classifier based on two state-of-the-art contextual word embeddings: ELMo and BERT. We show that deep neural networks using both embeddings perform much better than existing approaches, and are capable of detecting idiomatic word use, even for expressions that were not present in the training set. We demonstrate cross-lingual transfer of developed models and analyze the size of the required dataset.
Cross-Lingual Syntactic Transfer through Unsupervised Adaptation of   Invertible Projections.Cross-lingual transfer is an effective way to build syntactic analysis tools in low-resource languages. However, transfer is difficult when transferring to typologically distant languages, especially when neither annotated target data nor parallel corpora are available. In this paper, we focus on methods for cross-lingual transfer to distant languages and propose to learn a generative model with a structured prior that utilizes labeled source data and unlabeled target data jointly. The parameters of source model and target model are softly shared through a regularized log likelihood objective. An invertible projection is employed to learn a new interlingual latent embedding space that compensates for imperfect cross-lingual word embedding input. We evaluate our method on two syntactic tasks: part-of-speech (POS) tagging and dependency parsing. On the Universal Dependency Treebanks, we use English as the only source corpus and transfer to a wide range of target languages. On the 10 languages in this dataset that are distant from English, our method yields an average of 5.2% absolute improvement on POS tagging and 8.3% absolute improvement on dependency parsing over a direct transfer method using state-of-the-art discriminative models.
Establishing Strong Baselines for the New Decade: Sequence Tagging,   Syntactic and Semantic Parsing with BERT.This paper presents new state-of-the-art models for three tasks, part-of-speech tagging, syntactic parsing, and semantic parsing, using the cutting-edge contextualized embedding framework known as BERT. For each task, we first replicate and simplify the current state-of-the-art approach to enhance its model efficiency. We then evaluate our simplified approaches on those three tasks using token embeddings generated by BERT. 12 datasets in both English and Chinese are used for our experiments. The BERT models outperform the previously best-performing models by 2.5% on average (7.5% for the most significant case). Moreover, an in-depth analysis on the impact of BERT embeddings is provided using self-attention, which helps understanding in this rich yet representation. All models and source codes are available in public so that researchers can improve upon and utilize them to establish strong baselines for the next decade.
Multi-Time-Scale Convolution for Emotion Recognition from Speech Audio   Signals.Robustness against temporal variations is important for emotion recognition from speech audio, since emotion is ex-pressed through complex spectral patterns that can exhibit significant local dilation and compression on the time axis depending on speaker and context. To address this and potentially other tasks, we introduce the multi-time-scale (MTS) method to create flexibility towards temporal variations when analyzing time-frequency representations of audio data. MTS extends convolutional neural networks with convolution kernels that are scaled and re-sampled along the time axis, to increase temporal flexibility without increasing the number of trainable parameters compared to standard convolutional layers. We evaluate MTS and standard convolutional layers in different architectures for emotion recognition from speech audio, using 4 datasets of different sizes. The results show that the use of MTS layers consistently improves the generalization of networks of different capacity and depth, compared to standard convolution, especially on smaller datasets
Multimodal Routing: Improving Local and Global Interpretability of   Multimodal Language Analysis.The human language can be expressed through multiple sources of information known as modalities, including tones of voice, facial gestures, and spoken language. Recent multimodal learning with strong performances on human-centric tasks such as sentiment analysis and emotion recognition are often black-box, with very limited interpretability. In this paper we propose Multimodal Routing, which dynamically adjusts weights between input modalities and output representations differently for each input sample. Multimodal routing can identify relative importance of both individual modalities and cross-modality features. Moreover, the weight assignment by routing allows us to interpret modality-prediction relationships not only globally (i.e. general trends over the whole dataset), but also locally for each single input sample, meanwhile keeping competitive performance compared to state-of-the-art methods.
Complementary Fusion of Multi-Features and Multi-Modalities in Sentiment   Analysis.Sentiment analysis, mostly based on text, has been rapidly developing in the last decade and has attracted widespread attention in both academia and industry. However, the information in the real world usually comes from multiple modalities, such as audio and text. Therefore, in this paper, based on audio and text, we consider the task of multimodal sentiment analysis and propose a novel fusion strategy including both multi-feature fusion and multi-modality fusion to improve the accuracy of audio-text sentiment analysis. We call it the DFF-ATMF (Deep Feature Fusion - Audio and Text Modality Fusion) model, which consists of two parallel branches, the audio modality based branch and the text modality based branch. Its core mechanisms are the fusion of multiple feature vectors and multiple modality attention. Experiments on the CMU-MOSI dataset and the recently released CMU-MOSEI dataset, both collected from YouTube for sentiment analysis, show the very competitive results of our DFF-ATMF model. Furthermore, by virtue of attention weight distribution heatmaps, we also demonstrate the deep features learned by using DFF-ATMF are complementary to each other and robust. Surprisingly, DFF-ATMF also achieves new state-of-the-art results on the IEMOCAP dataset, indicating that the proposed fusion strategy also has a good generalization ability for multimodal emotion recognition.
A Multi-task Neural Approach for Emotion Attribution, Classification and   Summarization.Emotional content is a crucial ingredient in user-generated videos. However, the sparsity of emotional expressions in the videos poses an obstacle to visual emotion analysis. In this paper, we propose a new neural approach, Bi-stream Emotion Attribution-Classification Network (BEAC-Net), to solve three related emotion analysis tasks: emotion recognition, emotion attribution, and emotion-oriented summarization, in a single integrated framework. BEAC-Net has two major constituents, an attribution network and a classification network. The attribution network extracts the main emotional segment that classification should focus on in order to mitigate the sparsity issue. The classification network utilizes both the extracted segment and the original video in a bi-stream architecture. We contribute a new dataset for the emotion attribution task with human-annotated ground-truth labels for emotion segments. Experiments on two video datasets demonstrate superior performance of the proposed framework and the complementary nature of the dual classification streams.
Emotionless: Privacy-Preserving Speech Analysis for Voice Assistants.Voice-enabled interactions provide more human-like experiences in many popular IoT systems. Cloud-based speech analysis services extract useful information from voice input using speech recognition techniques. The voice signal is a rich resource that discloses several possible states of a speaker, such as emotional state, confidence and stress levels, physical condition, age, gender, and personal traits. Service providers can build a very accurate profile of a user's demographic category, personal preferences, and may compromise privacy. To address this problem, a privacy-preserving intermediate layer between users and cloud services is proposed to sanitize the voice input. It aims to maintain utility while preserving user privacy. It achieves this by collecting real time speech data and analyzes the signal to ensure privacy protection prior to sharing of this data with services providers. Precisely, the sensitive representations are extracted from the raw signal by using transformation functions and then wrapped it via voice conversion technology. Experimental evaluation based on emotion recognition to assess the efficacy of the proposed method shows that identification of sensitive emotional state of the speaker is reduced by ~96 %.
Human-Centered Emotion Recognition in Animated GIFs.As an intuitive way of expression emotion, the animated Graphical Interchange Format (GIF) images have been widely used on social media. Most previous studies on automated GIF emotion recognition fail to effectively utilize GIF's unique properties, and this potentially limits the recognition performance. In this study, we demonstrate the importance of human related information in GIFs and conduct human-centered GIF emotion recognition with a proposed Keypoint Attended Visual Attention Network (KAVAN). The framework consists of a facial attention module and a hierarchical segment temporal module. The facial attention module exploits the strong relationship between GIF contents and human characters, and extracts frame-level visual feature with a focus on human faces. The Hierarchical Segment LSTM (HS-LSTM) module is then proposed to better learn global GIF representations. Our proposed framework outperforms the state-of-the-art on the MIT GIFGIF dataset. Furthermore, the facial attention module provides reliable facial region mask predictions, which improves the model's interpretability.
Transformer for Emotion Recognition.This paper describes the UMONS solution for the OMG-Emotion Challenge. We explore a context-dependent architecture where the arousal and valence of an utterance are predicted according to its surrounding context (i.e. the preceding and following utterances of the video). We report an improvement when taking into account context for both unimodal and multimodal predictions.
Emotion Recognition in the Wild using Deep Neural Networks and Bayesian   Classifiers.Group emotion recognition in the wild is a challenging problem, due to the unstructured environments in which everyday life pictures are taken. Some of the obstacles for an effective classification are occlusions, variable lighting conditions, and image quality. In this work we present a solution based on a novel combination of deep neural networks and Bayesian classifiers. The neural network works on a bottom-up approach, analyzing emotions expressed by isolated faces. The Bayesian classifier estimates a global emotion integrating top-down features obtained through a scene descriptor. In order to validate the system we tested the framework on the dataset released for the Emotion Recognition in the Wild Challenge 2017. Our method achieved an accuracy of 64.68% on the test set, significantly outperforming the 53.62% competition baseline.
Building a Large Scale Dataset for Image Emotion Recognition: The Fine   Print and The Benchmark.Psychological research results have confirmed that people can have different emotional reactions to different visual stimuli. Several papers have been published on the problem of visual emotion analysis. In particular, attempts have been made to analyze and predict people's emotional reaction towards images. To this end, different kinds of hand-tuned features are proposed. The results reported on several carefully selected and labeled small image data sets have confirmed the promise of such features. While the recent successes of many computer vision related tasks are due to the adoption of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), visual emotion analysis has not achieved the same level of success. This may be primarily due to the unavailability of confidently labeled and relatively large image data sets for visual emotion analysis. In this work, we introduce a new data set, which started from 3+ million weakly labeled images of different emotions and ended up 30 times as large as the current largest publicly available visual emotion data set. We hope that this data set encourages further research on visual emotion analysis. We also perform extensive benchmarking analyses on this large data set using the state of the art methods including CNNs.
Weakly Supervised Visual Semantic Parsing.Scene Graph Generation (SGG) aims to extract entities, predicates and their semantic structure from images, enabling deep understanding of visual content, with many applications such as visual reasoning and image retrieval. Nevertheless, existing SGG methods require millions of manually annotated bounding boxes for training, and are computationally inefficient, as they exhaustively process all pairs of object proposals to detect predicates. In this paper, we address those two limitations by first proposing a generalized formulation of SGG, namely Visual Semantic Parsing, which disentangles entity and predicate recognition, and enables sub-quadratic performance. Then we propose the Visual Semantic Parsing Network, VSPNet, based on a dynamic, attention-based, bipartite message passing framework that jointly infers graph nodes and edges through an iterative process. Additionally, we propose the first graph-based weakly supervised learning framework, based on a novel graph alignment algorithm, which enables training without bounding box annotations. Through extensive experiments, we show that VSPNet outperforms weakly supervised baselines significantly and approaches fully supervised performance, while being several times faster. We publicly release the source code of our method.
Good-Enough Compositional Data Augmentation.We propose a simple data augmentation protocol aimed at providing a compositional inductive bias in conditional and unconditional sequence models. Under this protocol, synthetic training examples are constructed by taking real training examples and replacing (possibly discontinuous) fragments with other fragments that appear in at least one similar environment. The protocol is model-agnostic and useful for a variety of tasks. Applied to neural sequence-to-sequence models, it reduces error rate by as much as 87% on diagnostic tasks from the SCAN dataset and 16% on a semantic parsing task. Applied to n-gram language models, it reduces perplexity by roughly 1% on small corpora in several languages.
Weakly-supervised Semantic Parsing with Abstract Examples.Training semantic parsers from weak supervision (denotations) rather than strong supervision (programs) complicates training in two ways. First, a large search space of potential programs needs to be explored at training time to find a correct program. Second, spurious programs that accidentally lead to a correct denotation add noise to training. In this work we propose that in closed worlds with clear semantic types, one can substantially alleviate these problems by utilizing an abstract representation, where tokens in both the language utterance and program are lifted to an abstract form. We show that these abstractions can be defined with a handful of lexical rules and that they result in sharing between different examples that alleviates the difficulties in training. To test our approach, we develop the first semantic parser for CNLVR, a challenging visual reasoning dataset, where the search space is large and overcoming spuriousness is critical, because denotations are either TRUE or FALSE, and thus random programs are likely to lead to a correct denotation. Our method substantially improves performance, and reaches 82.5% accuracy, a 14.7% absolute accuracy improvement compared to the best reported accuracy so far.
Sequence-to-Action: End-to-End Semantic Graph Generation for Semantic   Parsing.This paper proposes a neural semantic parsing approach -- Sequence-to-Action, which models semantic parsing as an end-to-end semantic graph generation process. Our method simultaneously leverages the advantages from two recent promising directions of semantic parsing. Firstly, our model uses a semantic graph to represent the meaning of a sentence, which has a tight-coupling with knowledge bases. Secondly, by leveraging the powerful representation learning and prediction ability of neural network models, we propose a RNN model which can effectively map sentences to action sequences for semantic graph generation. Experiments show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on OVERNIGHT dataset and gets competitive performance on GEO and ATIS datasets.
Diversity in Fashion Recommendation using Semantic Parsing.Developing recommendation system for fashion images is challenging due to the inherent ambiguity associated with what criterion a user is looking at. Suggesting multiple images where each output image is similar to the query image on the basis of a different feature or part is one way to mitigate the problem. Existing works for fashion recommendation have used Siamese or Triplet network to learn features between a similar pair and a similar-dissimilar triplet respectively. However, these methods do not provide basic information such as, how two clothing images are similar, or which parts present in the two images make them similar. In this paper, we propose to recommend images by explicitly learning and exploiting part based similarity. We propose a novel approach of learning discriminative features from weakly-supervised data by using visual attention over the parts and a texture encoding network. We show that the learned features surpass the state-of-the-art in retrieval task on DeepFashion dataset. We then use the proposed model to recommend fashion images having an explicit variation with respect to similarity of any of the parts.
Multi-Task Learning for Conversational Question Answering over a   Large-Scale Knowledge Base.We consider the problem of conversational question answering over a large-scale knowledge base. To handle huge entity vocabulary of a large-scale knowledge base, recent neural semantic parsing based approaches usually decompose the task into several subtasks and then solve them sequentially, which leads to following issues: 1) errors in earlier subtasks will be propagated and negatively affect downstream ones; and 2) each subtask cannot naturally share supervision signals with others. To tackle these issues, we propose an innovative multi-task learning framework where a pointer-equipped semantic parsing model is designed to resolve coreference in conversations, and naturally empower joint learning with a novel type-aware entity detection model. The proposed framework thus enables shared supervisions and alleviates the effect of error propagation. Experiments on a large-scale conversational question answering dataset containing 1.6M question answering pairs over 12.8M entities show that the proposed framework improves overall F1 score from 67% to 79% compared with previous state-of-the-art work.
Character-level Representations Improve DRS-based Semantic Parsing Even   in the Age of BERT.We combine character-level and contextual language model representations to improve performance on Discourse Representation Structure parsing. Character representations can easily be added in a sequence-to-sequence model in either one encoder or as a fully separate encoder, with improvements that are robust to different language models, languages and data sets. For English, these improvements are larger than adding individual sources of linguistic information or adding non-contextual embeddings. A new method of analysis based on semantic tags demonstrates that the character-level representations improve performance across a subset of selected semantic phenomena.
Compositional Semantic Parsing Across Graphbanks.Most semantic parsers that map sentences to graph-based meaning representations are hand-designed for specific graphbanks. We present a compositional neural semantic parser which achieves, for the first time, competitive accuracies across a diverse range of graphbanks. Incorporating BERT embeddings and multi-task learning improves the accuracy further, setting new states of the art on DM, PAS, PSD, AMR 2015 and EDS.
Exploring Neural Methods for Parsing Discourse Representation Structures.Neural methods have had several recent successes in semantic parsing, though they have yet to face the challenge of producing meaning representations based on formal semantics. We present a sequence-to-sequence neural semantic parser that is able to produce Discourse Representation Structures (DRSs) for English sentences with high accuracy, outperforming traditional DRS parsers. To facilitate the learning of the output, we represent DRSs as a sequence of flat clauses and introduce a method to verify that produced DRSs are well-formed and interpretable. We compare models using characters and words as input and see (somewhat surprisingly) that the former performs better than the latter. We show that eliminating variable names from the output using De Bruijn-indices increases parser performance. Adding silver training data boosts performance even further.
Paraphrase Generation as Zero-Shot Multilingual Translation:   Disentangling Semantic Similarity from Lexical and Syntactic Diversity.Recent work has shown that a multilingual neural machine translation (NMT) model can be used to judge how well a sentence paraphrases another sentence in the same language (Thompson and Post, 2020); however, attempting to generate paraphrases from such a model using standard beam search produces trivial copies or near copies. We introduce a simple paraphrase generation algorithm which discourages the production of n-grams that are present in the input. Our approach enables paraphrase generation in many languages from a single multilingual NMT model. Furthermore, the amount of lexical diversity between the input and output can be controlled at generation time. We conduct a human evaluation to compare our method to a paraphraser trained on the large English synthetic paraphrase database ParaBank 2 (Hu et al., 2019c) and find that our method produces paraphrases that better preserve meaning and are more gramatical, for the same level of lexical diversity. Additional smaller human assessments demonstrate our approach also works in two non-English languages.
TextBugger: Generating Adversarial Text Against Real-world Applications.Deep Learning-based Text Understanding (DLTU) is the backbone technique behind various applications, including question answering, machine translation, and text classification. Despite its tremendous popularity, the security vulnerabilities of DLTU are still largely unknown, which is highly concerning given its increasing use in security-sensitive applications such as sentiment analysis and toxic content detection. In this paper, we show that DLTU is inherently vulnerable to adversarial text attacks, in which maliciously crafted texts trigger target DLTU systems and services to misbehave. Specifically, we present TextBugger, a general attack framework for generating adversarial texts. In contrast to prior works, TextBugger differs in significant ways: (i) effective -- it outperforms state-of-the-art attacks in terms of attack success rate; (ii) evasive -- it preserves the utility of benign text, with 94.9\% of the adversarial text correctly recognized by human readers; and (iii) efficient -- it generates adversarial text with computational complexity sub-linear to the text length. We empirically evaluate TextBugger on a set of real-world DLTU systems and services used for sentiment analysis and toxic content detection, demonstrating its effectiveness, evasiveness, and efficiency. For instance, TextBugger achieves 100\% success rate on the IMDB dataset based on Amazon AWS Comprehend within 4.61 seconds and preserves 97\% semantic similarity. We further discuss possible defense mechanisms to mitigate such attack and the adversary's potential countermeasures, which leads to promising directions for further research.
Hard negative examples are hard, but useful.Triplet loss is an extremely common approach to distance metric learning. Representations of images from the same class are optimized to be mapped closer together in an embedding space than representations of images from different classes. Much work on triplet losses focuses on selecting the most useful triplets of images to consider, with strategies that select dissimilar examples from the same class or similar examples from different classes. The consensus of previous research is that optimizing with the \textit{hardest} negative examples leads to bad training behavior. That's a problem -- these hardest negatives are literally the cases where the distance metric fails to capture semantic similarity. In this paper, we characterize the space of triplets and derive why hard negatives make triplet loss training fail. We offer a simple fix to the loss function and show that, with this fix, optimizing with hard negative examples becomes feasible. This leads to more generalizable features, and image retrieval results that outperform state of the art for datasets with high intra-class variance.
OPA2Vec: combining formal and informal content of biomedical ontologies   to improve similarity-based prediction.Motivation: Ontologies are widely used in biology for data annotation, integration, and analysis. In addition to formally structured axioms, ontologies contain meta-data in the form of annotation axioms which provide valuable pieces of information that characterize ontology classes. Annotations commonly used in ontologies include class labels, descriptions, or synonyms. Despite being a rich source of semantic information, the ontology meta-data are generally unexploited by ontology-based analysis methods such as semantic similarity measures. Results: We propose a novel method, OPA2Vec, to generate vector representations of biological entities in ontologies by combining formal ontology axioms and annotation axioms from the ontology meta-data. We apply a Word2Vec model that has been pre-trained on PubMed abstracts to produce feature vectors from our collected data. We validate our method in two different ways: first, we use the obtained vector representations of proteins as a similarity measure to predict protein-protein interaction (PPI) on two different datasets. Second, we evaluate our method on predicting gene-disease associations based on phenotype similarity by generating vector representations of genes and diseases using a phenotype ontology, and applying the obtained vectors to predict gene-disease associations. These two experiments are just an illustration of the possible applications of our method. OPA2Vec can be used to produce vector representations of any biomedical entity given any type of biomedical ontology. Availability: https://github.com/bio-ontology-research-group/opa2vec Contact: robert.hoehndorf@kaust.edu.sa and xin.gao@kaust.edu.sa.
Learning Semantic Textual Similarity from Conversations.We present a novel approach to learn representations for sentence-level semantic similarity using conversational data. Our method trains an unsupervised model to predict conversational input-response pairs. The resulting sentence embeddings perform well on the semantic textual similarity (STS) benchmark and SemEval 2017's Community Question Answering (CQA) question similarity subtask. Performance is further improved by introducing multitask training combining the conversational input-response prediction task and a natural language inference task. Extensive experiments show the proposed model achieves the best performance among all neural models on the STS benchmark and is competitive with the state-of-the-art feature engineered and mixed systems in both tasks.
R-VQA: Learning Visual Relation Facts with Semantic Attention for Visual   Question Answering.Recently, Visual Question Answering (VQA) has emerged as one of the most significant tasks in multimodal learning as it requires understanding both visual and textual modalities. Existing methods mainly rely on extracting image and question features to learn their joint feature embedding via multimodal fusion or attention mechanism. Some recent studies utilize external VQA-independent models to detect candidate entities or attributes in images, which serve as semantic knowledge complementary to the VQA task. However, these candidate entities or attributes might be unrelated to the VQA task and have limited semantic capacities. To better utilize semantic knowledge in images, we propose a novel framework to learn visual relation facts for VQA. Specifically, we build up a Relation-VQA (R-VQA) dataset based on the Visual Genome dataset via a semantic similarity module, in which each data consists of an image, a corresponding question, a correct answer and a supporting relation fact. A well-defined relation detector is then adopted to predict visual question-related relation facts. We further propose a multi-step attention model composed of visual attention and semantic attention sequentially to extract related visual knowledge and semantic knowledge. We conduct comprehensive experiments on the two benchmark datasets, demonstrating that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance and verifying the benefit of considering visual relation facts.
Better Summarization Evaluation with Word Embeddings for ROUGE.ROUGE is a widely adopted, automatic evaluation measure for text summarization. While it has been shown to correlate well with human judgements, it is biased towards surface lexical similarities. This makes it unsuitable for the evaluation of abstractive summarization, or summaries with substantial paraphrasing. We study the effectiveness of word embeddings to overcome this disadvantage of ROUGE. Specifically, instead of measuring lexical overlaps, word embeddings are used to compute the semantic similarity of the words used in summaries instead. Our experimental results show that our proposal is able to achieve better correlations with human judgements when measured with the Spearman and Kendall rank coefficients.
A Unifying Theory of Transition-based and Sequence Labeling Parsing.We define a mapping from transition-based parsing algorithms that read sentences from left to right to sequence labeling encodings of syntactic trees. This not only establishes a theoretical relation between transition-based parsing and sequence-labeling parsing, but also provides a method to obtain new encodings for fast and simple sequence labeling parsing from the many existing transition-based parsers for different formalisms. Applying it to dependency parsing, we implement sequence labeling versions of four algorithms, showing that they are learnable and obtain comparable performance to existing encodings.
Viable Dependency Parsing as Sequence Labeling.We recast dependency parsing as a sequence labeling problem, exploring several encodings of dependency trees as labels. While dependency parsing by means of sequence labeling had been attempted in existing work, results suggested that the technique was impractical. We show instead that with a conventional BiLSTM-based model it is possible to obtain fast and accurate parsers. These parsers are conceptually simple, not needing traditional parsing algorithms or auxiliary structures. However, experiments on the PTB and a sample of UD treebanks show that they provide a good speed-accuracy tradeoff, with results competitive with more complex approaches.
Enhanced Universal Dependency Parsing with Second-Order Inference and   Mixture of Training Data.This paper presents the system used in our submission to the \textit{IWPT 2020 Shared Task}. Our system is a graph-based parser with second-order inference. For the low-resource Tamil corpus, we specially mixed the training data of Tamil with other languages and significantly improved the performance of Tamil. Due to our misunderstanding of the submission requirements, we submitted graphs that are not connected, which makes our system only rank \textbf{6th} over 10 teams. However, after we fixed this problem, our system is 0.6 ELAS higher than the team that ranked \textbf{1st} in the official results.
LINSPECTOR: Multilingual Probing Tasks for Word Representations.Despite an ever growing number of word representation models introduced for a large number of languages, there is a lack of a standardized technique to provide insights into what is captured by these models. Such insights would help the community to get an estimate of the downstream task performance, as well as to design more informed neural architectures, while avoiding extensive experimentation which requires substantial computational resources not all researchers have access to. A recent development in NLP is to use simple classification tasks, also called probing tasks, that test for a single linguistic feature such as part-of-speech. Existing studies mostly focus on exploring the linguistic information encoded by the continuous representations of English text. However, from a typological perspective the morphologically poor English is rather an outlier: the information encoded by the word order and function words in English is often stored on a morphological level in other languages. To address this, we introduce 15 type-level probing tasks such as case marking, possession, word length, morphological tag count and pseudoword identification for 24 languages. We present a reusable methodology for creation and evaluation of such tests in a multilingual setting. We then present experiments on several diverse multilingual word embedding models, in which we relate the probing task performance for a diverse set of languages to a range of five classic NLP tasks: POS-tagging, dependency parsing, semantic role labeling, named entity recognition and natural language inference. We find that a number of probing tests have significantly high positive correlation to the downstream tasks, especially for morphologically rich languages. We show that our tests can be used to explore word embeddings or black-box neural models for linguistic cues in a multilingual setting.
PACRR: A Position-Aware Neural IR Model for Relevance Matching.In order to adopt deep learning for information retrieval, models are needed that can capture all relevant information required to assess the relevance of a document to a given user query. While previous works have successfully captured unigram term matches, how to fully employ position-dependent information such as proximity and term dependencies has been insufficiently explored. In this work, we propose a novel neural IR model named PACRR aiming at better modeling position-dependent interactions between a query and a document. Extensive experiments on six years' TREC Web Track data confirm that the proposed model yields better results under multiple benchmarks.
Progressively Pretrained Dense Corpus Index for Open-Domain Question   Answering.To extract answers from a large corpus, open-domain question answering (QA) systems usually rely on information retrieval (IR) techniques to narrow the search space. Standard inverted index methods such as TF-IDF are commonly used as thanks to their efficiency. However, their retrieval performance is limited as they simply use shallow and sparse lexical features. To break the IR bottleneck, recent studies show that stronger retrieval performance can be achieved by pretraining a effective paragraph encoder that index paragraphs into dense vectors. Once trained, the corpus can be pre-encoded into low-dimensional vectors and stored within an index structure where the retrieval can be efficiently implemented as maximum inner product search.   Despite the promising results, pretraining such a dense index is expensive and often requires a very large batch size. In this work, we propose a simple and resource-efficient method to pretrain the paragraph encoder. First, instead of using heuristically created pseudo question-paragraph pairs for pretraining, we utilize an existing pretrained sequence-to-sequence model to build a strong question generator that creates high-quality pretraining data. Second, we propose a progressive pretraining algorithm to ensure the existence of effective negative samples in each batch. Across three datasets, our method outperforms an existing dense retrieval method that uses 7 times more computational resources for pretraining.
Receptive-Field Regularized CNNs for Music Classification and Tagging.Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been successfully used in various Music Information Retrieval (MIR) tasks, both as end-to-end models and as feature extractors for more complex systems. However, the MIR field is still dominated by the classical VGG-based CNN architecture variants, often in combination with more complex modules such as attention, and/or techniques such as pre-training on large datasets. Deeper models such as ResNet -- which surpassed VGG by a large margin in other domains -- are rarely used in MIR. One of the main reasons for this, as we will show, is the lack of generalization of deeper CNNs in the music domain. In this paper, we present a principled way to make deep architectures like ResNet competitive for music-related tasks, based on well-designed regularization strategies. In particular, we analyze the recently introduced Receptive-Field Regularization and Shake-Shake, and show that they significantly improve the generalization of deep CNNs on music-related tasks, and that the resulting deep CNNs can outperform current more complex models such as CNNs augmented with pre-training and attention. We demonstrate this on two different MIR tasks and two corresponding datasets, thus offering our deep regularized CNNs as a new baseline for these datasets, which can also be used as a feature-extracting module in future, more complex approaches.
Explaining Deep Convolutional Neural Networks on Music Classification.Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been actively adopted in the field of music information retrieval, e.g. genre classification, mood detection, and chord recognition. However, the process of learning and prediction is little understood, particularly when it is applied to spectrograms. We introduce auralisation of a CNN to understand its underlying mechanism, which is based on a deconvolution procedure introduced in [2]. Auralisation of a CNN is converting the learned convolutional features that are obtained from deconvolution into audio signals. In the experiments and discussions, we explain trained features of a 5-layer CNN based on the deconvolved spectrograms and auralised signals. The pairwise correlations per layers with varying different musical attributes are also investigated to understand the evolution of the learnt features. It is shown that in the deep layers, the features are learnt to capture textures, the patterns of continuous distributions, rather than shapes of lines.
edge2vec: Representation learning using edge semantics for biomedical   knowledge discovery.Representation learning provides new and powerful graph analytical approaches and tools for the highly valued data science challenge of mining knowledge graphs. Since previous graph analytical methods have mostly focused on homogeneous graphs, an important current challenge is extending this methodology for richly heterogeneous graphs and knowledge domains. The biomedical sciences are such a domain, reflecting the complexity of biology, with entities such as genes, proteins, drugs, diseases, and phenotypes, and relationships such as gene co-expression, biochemical regulation, and biomolecular inhibition or activation. Therefore, the semantics of edges and nodes are critical for representation learning and knowledge discovery in real world biomedical problems. In this paper, we propose the edge2vec model, which represents graphs considering edge semantics. An edge-type transition matrix is trained by an Expectation-Maximization approach, and a stochastic gradient descent model is employed to learn node embedding on a heterogeneous graph via the trained transition matrix. edge2vec is validated on three biomedical domain tasks: biomedical entity classification, compound-gene bioactivity prediction, and biomedical information retrieval. Results show that by considering edge-types into node embedding learning in heterogeneous graphs, \textbf{edge2vec}\ significantly outperforms state-of-the-art models on all three tasks. We propose this method for its added value relative to existing graph analytical methodology, and in the real world context of biomedical knowledge discovery applicability.
Reasoning about Entailment with Neural Attention.While most approaches to automatically recognizing entailment relations have used classifiers employing hand engineered features derived from complex natural language processing pipelines, in practice their performance has been only slightly better than bag-of-word pair classifiers using only lexical similarity. The only attempt so far to build an end-to-end differentiable neural network for entailment failed to outperform such a simple similarity classifier. In this paper, we propose a neural model that reads two sentences to determine entailment using long short-term memory units. We extend this model with a word-by-word neural attention mechanism that encourages reasoning over entailments of pairs of words and phrases. Furthermore, we present a qualitative analysis of attention weights produced by this model, demonstrating such reasoning capabilities. On a large entailment dataset this model outperforms the previous best neural model and a classifier with engineered features by a substantial margin. It is the first generic end-to-end differentiable system that achieves state-of-the-art accuracy on a textual entailment dataset.
Semantics-aware BERT for Language Understanding.The latest work on language representations carefully integrates contextualized features into language model training, which enables a series of success especially in various machine reading comprehension and natural language inference tasks. However, the existing language representation models including ELMo, GPT and BERT only exploit plain context-sensitive features such as character or word embeddings. They rarely consider incorporating structured semantic information which can provide rich semantics for language representation. To promote natural language understanding, we propose to incorporate explicit contextual semantics from pre-trained semantic role labeling, and introduce an improved language representation model, Semantics-aware BERT (SemBERT), which is capable of explicitly absorbing contextual semantics over a BERT backbone. SemBERT keeps the convenient usability of its BERT precursor in a light fine-tuning way without substantial task-specific modifications. Compared with BERT, semantics-aware BERT is as simple in concept but more powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art or substantially improves results on ten reading comprehension and language inference tasks.
Order-Embeddings of Images and Language.Hypernymy, textual entailment, and image captioning can be seen as special cases of a single visual-semantic hierarchy over words, sentences, and images. In this paper we advocate for explicitly modeling the partial order structure of this hierarchy. Towards this goal, we introduce a general method for learning ordered representations, and show how it can be applied to a variety of tasks involving images and language. We show that the resulting representations improve performance over current approaches for hypernym prediction and image-caption retrieval.
SparseMAP: Differentiable Sparse Structured Inference.Structured prediction requires searching over a combinatorial number of structures. To tackle it, we introduce SparseMAP: a new method for sparse structured inference, and its natural loss function. SparseMAP automatically selects only a few global structures: it is situated between MAP inference, which picks a single structure, and marginal inference, which assigns probability mass to all structures, including implausible ones. Importantly, SparseMAP can be computed using only calls to a MAP oracle, making it applicable to problems with intractable marginal inference, e.g., linear assignment. Sparsity makes gradient backpropagation efficient regardless of the structure, enabling us to augment deep neural networks with generic and sparse structured hidden layers. Experiments in dependency parsing and natural language inference reveal competitive accuracy, improved interpretability, and the ability to capture natural language ambiguities, which is attractive for pipeline systems.
InfoBERT: Improving Robustness of Language Models from An Information   Theoretic Perspective.Large-scale language models such as BERT have achieved state-of-the-art performance across a wide range of NLP tasks. Recent studies, however, show that such BERT-based models are vulnerable facing the threats of textual adversarial attacks. We aim to address this problem from an information-theoretic perspective, and propose InfoBERT, a novel learning framework for robust fine-tuning of pre-trained language models. InfoBERT contains two mutual-information-based regularizers for model training: (i) an Information Bottleneck regularizer, which suppresses noisy mutual information between the input and the feature representation; and (ii) a Robust Feature regularizer, which increases the mutual information between local robust features and global features. We provide a principled way to theoretically analyze and improve the robustness of representation learning for language models in both standard and adversarial training. Extensive experiments demonstrate that InfoBERT achieves state-of-the-art robust accuracy over several adversarial datasets on Natural Language Inference (NLI) and Question Answering (QA) tasks.
Global Relation Embedding for Relation Extraction.We study the problem of textual relation embedding with distant supervision. To combat the wrong labeling problem of distant supervision, we propose to embed textual relations with global statistics of relations, i.e., the co-occurrence statistics of textual and knowledge base relations collected from the entire corpus. This approach turns out to be more robust to the training noise introduced by distant supervision. On a popular relation extraction dataset, we show that the learned textual relation embedding can be used to augment existing relation extraction models and significantly improve their performance. Most remarkably, for the top 1,000 relational facts discovered by the best existing model, the precision can be improved from 83.9% to 89.3%.
Extracting Multiple-Relations in One-Pass with Pre-Trained Transformers.Most approaches to extraction multiple relations from a paragraph require multiple passes over the paragraph. In practice, multiple passes are computationally expensive and this makes difficult to scale to longer paragraphs and larger text corpora. In this work, we focus on the task of multiple relation extraction by encoding the paragraph only once (one-pass). We build our solution on the pre-trained self-attentive (Transformer) models, where we first add a structured prediction layer to handle extraction between multiple entity pairs, then enhance the paragraph embedding to capture multiple relational information associated with each entity with an entity-aware attention technique. We show that our approach is not only scalable but can also perform state-of-the-art on the standard benchmark ACE 2005.
FewRel: A Large-Scale Supervised Few-Shot Relation Classification   Dataset with State-of-the-Art Evaluation.We present a Few-Shot Relation Classification Dataset (FewRel), consisting of 70, 000 sentences on 100 relations derived from Wikipedia and annotated by crowdworkers. The relation of each sentence is first recognized by distant supervision methods, and then filtered by crowdworkers. We adapt the most recent state-of-the-art few-shot learning methods for relation classification and conduct a thorough evaluation of these methods. Empirical results show that even the most competitive few-shot learning models struggle on this task, especially as compared with humans. We also show that a range of different reasoning skills are needed to solve our task. These results indicate that few-shot relation classification remains an open problem and still requires further research. Our detailed analysis points multiple directions for future research. All details and resources about the dataset and baselines are released on http://zhuhao.me/fewrel.
Effective Modeling of Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Joint Entity and   Relation Extraction.A relation tuple consists of two entities and the relation between them, and often such tuples are found in unstructured text. There may be multiple relation tuples present in a text and they may share one or both entities among them. Extracting such relation tuples from a sentence is a difficult task and sharing of entities or overlapping entities among the tuples makes it more challenging. Most prior work adopted a pipeline approach where entities were identified first followed by finding the relations among them, thus missing the interaction among the relation tuples in a sentence. In this paper, we propose two approaches to use encoder-decoder architecture for jointly extracting entities and relations. In the first approach, we propose a representation scheme for relation tuples which enables the decoder to generate one word at a time like machine translation models and still finds all the tuples present in a sentence with full entity names of different length and with overlapping entities. Next, we propose a pointer network-based decoding approach where an entire tuple is generated at every time step. Experiments on the publicly available New York Times corpus show that our proposed approaches outperform previous work and achieve significantly higher F1 scores.
Robust Distant Supervision Relation Extraction via Deep Reinforcement   Learning.Distant supervision has become the standard method for relation extraction. However, even though it is an efficient method, it does not come at no cost---The resulted distantly-supervised training samples are often very noisy. To combat the noise, most of the recent state-of-the-art approaches focus on selecting one-best sentence or calculating soft attention weights over the set of the sentences of one specific entity pair. However, these methods are suboptimal, and the false positive problem is still a key stumbling bottleneck for the performance. We argue that those incorrectly-labeled candidate sentences must be treated with a hard decision, rather than being dealt with soft attention weights. To do this, our paper describes a radical solution---We explore a deep reinforcement learning strategy to generate the false-positive indicator, where we automatically recognize false positives for each relation type without any supervised information. Unlike the removal operation in the previous studies, we redistribute them into the negative examples. The experimental results show that the proposed strategy significantly improves the performance of distant supervision comparing to state-of-the-art systems.
Commonsense for Generative Multi-Hop Question Answering Tasks.Reading comprehension QA tasks have seen a recent surge in popularity, yet most works have focused on fact-finding extractive QA. We instead focus on a more challenging multi-hop generative task (NarrativeQA), which requires the model to reason, gather, and synthesize disjoint pieces of information within the context to generate an answer. This type of multi-step reasoning also often requires understanding implicit relations, which humans resolve via external, background commonsense knowledge. We first present a strong generative baseline that uses a multi-attention mechanism to perform multiple hops of reasoning and a pointer-generator decoder to synthesize the answer. This model performs substantially better than previous generative models, and is competitive with current state-of-the-art span prediction models. We next introduce a novel system for selecting grounded multi-hop relational commonsense information from ConceptNet via a pointwise mutual information and term-frequency based scoring function. Finally, we effectively use this extracted commonsense information to fill in gaps of reasoning between context hops, using a selectively-gated attention mechanism. This boosts the model's performance significantly (also verified via human evaluation), establishing a new state-of-the-art for the task. We also show promising initial results of the generalizability of our background knowledge enhancements by demonstrating some improvement on QAngaroo-WikiHop, another multi-hop reasoning dataset.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
RACE: Large-scale ReAding Comprehension Dataset From Examinations.We present RACE, a new dataset for benchmark evaluation of methods in the reading comprehension task. Collected from the English exams for middle and high school Chinese students in the age range between 12 to 18, RACE consists of near 28,000 passages and near 100,000 questions generated by human experts (English instructors), and covers a variety of topics which are carefully designed for evaluating the students' ability in understanding and reasoning. In particular, the proportion of questions that requires reasoning is much larger in RACE than that in other benchmark datasets for reading comprehension, and there is a significant gap between the performance of the state-of-the-art models (43%) and the ceiling human performance (95%). We hope this new dataset can serve as a valuable resource for research and evaluation in machine comprehension. The dataset is freely available at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~glai1/data/race/ and the code is available at https://github.com/qizhex/RACE_AR_baselines.
Two-Stage Synthesis Networks for Transfer Learning in Machine   Comprehension.We develop a technique for transfer learning in machine comprehension (MC) using a novel two-stage synthesis network (SynNet). Given a high-performing MC model in one domain, our technique aims to answer questions about documents in another domain, where we use no labeled data of question-answer pairs. Using the proposed SynNet with a pretrained model from the SQuAD dataset on the challenging NewsQA dataset, we achieve an F1 measure of 44.3% with a single model and 46.6% with an ensemble, approaching performance of in-domain models (F1 measure of 50.0%) and outperforming the out-of-domain baseline of 7.6%, without use of provided annotations.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Concept Pointer Network for Abstractive Summarization.A quality abstractive summary should not only copy salient source texts as summaries but should also tend to generate new conceptual words to express concrete details. Inspired by the popular pointer generator sequence-to-sequence model, this paper presents a concept pointer network for improving these aspects of abstractive summarization. The network leverages knowledge-based, context-aware conceptualizations to derive an extended set of candidate concepts. The model then points to the most appropriate choice using both the concept set and original source text. This joint approach generates abstractive summaries with higher-level semantic concepts. The training model is also optimized in a way that adapts to different data, which is based on a novel method of distantly-supervised learning guided by reference summaries and testing set. Overall, the proposed approach provides statistically significant improvements over several state-of-the-art models on both the DUC-2004 and Gigaword datasets. A human evaluation of the model's abstractive abilities also supports the quality of the summaries produced within this framework.
Better Summarization Evaluation with Word Embeddings for ROUGE.ROUGE is a widely adopted, automatic evaluation measure for text summarization. While it has been shown to correlate well with human judgements, it is biased towards surface lexical similarities. This makes it unsuitable for the evaluation of abstractive summarization, or summaries with substantial paraphrasing. We study the effectiveness of word embeddings to overcome this disadvantage of ROUGE. Specifically, instead of measuring lexical overlaps, word embeddings are used to compute the semantic similarity of the words used in summaries instead. Our experimental results show that our proposal is able to achieve better correlations with human judgements when measured with the Spearman and Kendall rank coefficients.
All Word Embeddings from One Embedding.In neural network-based models for natural language processing (NLP), the largest part of the parameters often consists of word embeddings. Conventional models prepare a large embedding matrix whose size depends on the vocabulary size. Therefore, storing these models in memory and disk storage is costly. In this study, to reduce the total number of parameters, the embeddings for all words are represented by transforming a shared embedding. The proposed method, ALONE (all word embeddings from one), constructs the embedding of a word by modifying the shared embedding with a filter vector, which is word-specific but non-trainable. Then, we input the constructed embedding into a feed-forward neural network to increase its expressiveness. Naively, the filter vectors occupy the same memory size as the conventional embedding matrix, which depends on the vocabulary size. To solve this issue, we also introduce a memory-efficient filter construction approach. We indicate our ALONE can be used as word representation sufficiently through an experiment on the reconstruction of pre-trained word embeddings. In addition, we also conduct experiments on NLP application tasks: machine translation and summarization. We combined ALONE with the current state-of-the-art encoder-decoder model, the Transformer, and achieved comparable scores on WMT 2014 English-to-German translation and DUC 2004 very short summarization with less parameters.
How to Write Summaries with Patterns? Learning towards Abstractive   Summarization through Prototype Editing.Under special circumstances, summaries should conform to a particular style with patterns, such as court judgments and abstracts in academic papers. To this end, the prototype document-summary pairs can be utilized to generate better summaries. There are two main challenges in this task: (1) the model needs to incorporate learned patterns from the prototype, but (2) should avoid copying contents other than the patternized words---such as irrelevant facts---into the generated summaries. To tackle these challenges, we design a model named Prototype Editing based Summary Generator (PESG). PESG first learns summary patterns and prototype facts by analyzing the correlation between a prototype document and its summary. Prototype facts are then utilized to help extract facts from the input document. Next, an editing generator generates new summary based on the summary pattern or extracted facts. Finally, to address the second challenge, a fact checker is used to estimate mutual information between the input document and generated summary, providing an additional signal for the generator. Extensive experiments conducted on a large-scale real-world text summarization dataset show that PESG achieves the state-of-the-art performance in terms of both automatic metrics and human evaluations.
Clinical Text Summarization with Syntax-Based Negation and Semantic   Concept Identification.In the era of clinical information explosion, a good strategy for clinical text summarization is helpful to improve the clinical workflow. The ideal summarization strategy can preserve important information in the informative but less organized, ill-structured clinical narrative texts. Instead of using pure statistical learning approaches, which are difficult to interpret and explain, we utilized knowledge of computational linguistics with human experts-curated biomedical knowledge base to achieve the interpretable and meaningful clinical text summarization. Our research objective is to use the biomedical ontology with semantic information, and take the advantage from the language hierarchical structure, the constituency tree, in order to identify the correct clinical concepts and the corresponding negation information, which is critical for summarizing clinical concepts from narrative text. We achieved the clinically acceptable performance for both negation detection and concept identification, and the clinical concepts with common negated patterns can be identified and negated by the proposed method.
This Email Could Save Your Life: Introducing the Task of Email Subject   Line Generation.Given the overwhelming number of emails, an effective subject line becomes essential to better inform the recipient of the email's content. In this paper, we propose and study the task of email subject line generation: automatically generating an email subject line from the email body. We create the first dataset for this task and find that email subject line generation favor extremely abstractive summary which differentiates it from news headline generation or news single document summarization. We then develop a novel deep learning method and compare it to several baselines as well as recent state-of-the-art text summarization systems. We also investigate the efficacy of several automatic metrics based on correlations with human judgments and propose a new automatic evaluation metric. Our system outperforms competitive baselines given both automatic and human evaluations. To our knowledge, this is the first work to tackle the problem of effective email subject line generation.
Jointly Extracting and Compressing Documents with Summary State   Representations.We present a new neural model for text summarization that first extracts sentences from a document and then compresses them. The proposed model offers a balance that sidesteps the difficulties in abstractive methods while generating more concise summaries than extractive methods. In addition, our model dynamically determines the length of the output summary based on the gold summaries it observes during training and does not require length constraints typical to extractive summarization. The model achieves state-of-the-art results on the CNN/DailyMail and Newsroom datasets, improving over current extractive and abstractive methods. Human evaluations demonstrate that our model generates concise and informative summaries. We also make available a new dataset of oracle compressive summaries derived automatically from the CNN/DailyMail reference summaries.
MedMentions: A Large Biomedical Corpus Annotated with UMLS Concepts.This paper presents the formal release of MedMentions, a new manually annotated resource for the recognition of biomedical concepts. What distinguishes MedMentions from other annotated biomedical corpora is its size (over 4,000 abstracts and over 350,000 linked mentions), as well as the size of the concept ontology (over 3 million concepts from UMLS 2017) and its broad coverage of biomedical disciplines. In addition to the full corpus, a sub-corpus of MedMentions is also presented, comprising annotations for a subset of UMLS 2017 targeted towards document retrieval. To encourage research in Biomedical Named Entity Recognition and Linking, data splits for training and testing are included in the release, and a baseline model and its metrics for entity linking are also described.
CollaboNet: collaboration of deep neural networks for biomedical named   entity recognition.Background: Finding biomedical named entities is one of the most essential tasks in biomedical text mining. Recently, deep learning-based approaches have been applied to biomedical named entity recognition (BioNER) and showed promising results. However, as deep learning approaches need an abundant amount of training data, a lack of data can hinder performance. BioNER datasets are scarce resources and each dataset covers only a small subset of entity types. Furthermore, many bio entities are polysemous, which is one of the major obstacles in named entity recognition. Results: To address the lack of data and the entity type misclassification problem, we propose CollaboNet which utilizes a combination of multiple NER models. In CollaboNet, models trained on a different dataset are connected to each other so that a target model obtains information from other collaborator models to reduce false positives. Every model is an expert on their target entity type and takes turns serving as a target and a collaborator model during training time. The experimental results show that CollaboNet can be used to greatly reduce the number of false positives and misclassified entities including polysemous words. CollaboNet achieved state-of-the-art performance in terms of precision, recall and F1 score. Conclusions: We demonstrated the benefits of combining multiple models for BioNER. Our model has successfully reduced the number of misclassified entities and improved the performance by leveraging multiple datasets annotated for different entity types. Given the state-of-the-art performance of our model, we believe that CollaboNet can improve the accuracy of downstream biomedical text mining applications such as bio-entity relation extraction.
Sentence-State LSTM for Text Representation.Bi-directional LSTMs are a powerful tool for text representation. On the other hand, they have been shown to suffer various limitations due to their sequential nature. We investigate an alternative LSTM structure for encoding text, which consists of a parallel state for each word. Recurrent steps are used to perform local and global information exchange between words simultaneously, rather than incremental reading of a sequence of words. Results on various classification and sequence labelling benchmarks show that the proposed model has strong representation power, giving highly competitive performances compared to stacked BiLSTM models with similar parameter numbers.
Deep Active Learning for Named Entity Recognition.Deep learning has yielded state-of-the-art performance on many natural language processing tasks including named entity recognition (NER). However, this typically requires large amounts of labeled data. In this work, we demonstrate that the amount of labeled training data can be drastically reduced when deep learning is combined with active learning. While active learning is sample-efficient, it can be computationally expensive since it requires iterative retraining. To speed this up, we introduce a lightweight architecture for NER, viz., the CNN-CNN-LSTM model consisting of convolutional character and word encoders and a long short term memory (LSTM) tag decoder. The model achieves nearly state-of-the-art performance on standard datasets for the task while being computationally much more efficient than best performing models. We carry out incremental active learning, during the training process, and are able to nearly match state-of-the-art performance with just 25\% of the original training data.
An Empirical Investigation of Pre-Trained Transformer Language Models   for Open-Domain Dialogue Generation.We present an empirical investigation of pre-trained Transformer-based auto-regressive language models for the task of open-domain dialogue generation. Training paradigm of pre-training and fine-tuning is employed to conduct the parameter learning. Corpora of News and Wikipedia in Chinese and English are collected for the pre-training stage respectively. Dialogue context and response are concatenated into a single sequence utilized as the input of the models during the fine-tuning stage. A weighted joint prediction paradigm for both context and response is designed to evaluate the performance of models with or without the loss term for context prediction. Various of decoding strategies such as greedy search, beam search, top-k sampling, etc. are employed to conduct the response text generation. Extensive experiments are conducted on the typical single-turn and multi-turn dialogue corpora such as Weibo, Douban, Reddit, DailyDialog, and Persona-Chat. Detailed numbers of automatic evaluation metrics on relevance and diversity of the generated results for the languages models as well as the baseline approaches are reported.
LSTM based Conversation Models.In this paper, we present a conversational model that incorporates both context and participant role for two-party conversations. Different architectures are explored for integrating participant role and context information into a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) language model. The conversational model can function as a language model or a language generation model. Experiments on the Ubuntu Dialog Corpus show that our model can capture multiple turn interaction between participants. The proposed method outperforms a traditional LSTM model as measured by language model perplexity and response ranking. Generated responses show characteristic differences between the two participant roles.
Few-Shot NLG with Pre-Trained Language Model.Neural-based end-to-end approaches to natural language generation (NLG) from structured data or knowledge are data-hungry, making their adoption for real-world applications difficult with limited data. In this work, we propose the new task of \textit{few-shot natural language generation}. Motivated by how humans tend to summarize tabular data, we propose a simple yet effective approach and show that it not only demonstrates strong performance but also provides good generalization across domains. The design of the model architecture is based on two aspects: content selection from input data and language modeling to compose coherent sentences, which can be acquired from prior knowledge. With just 200 training examples, across multiple domains, we show that our approach achieves very reasonable performances and outperforms the strongest baseline by an average of over 8.0 BLEU points improvement. Our code and data can be found at \url{https://github.com/czyssrs/Few-Shot-NLG}
Semi-Amortized Variational Autoencoders.Amortized variational inference (AVI) replaces instance-specific local inference with a global inference network. While AVI has enabled efficient training of deep generative models such as variational autoencoders (VAE), recent empirical work suggests that inference networks can produce suboptimal variational parameters. We propose a hybrid approach, to use AVI to initialize the variational parameters and run stochastic variational inference (SVI) to refine them. Crucially, the local SVI procedure is itself differentiable, so the inference network and generative model can be trained end-to-end with gradient-based optimization. This semi-amortized approach enables the use of rich generative models without experiencing the posterior-collapse phenomenon common in training VAEs for problems like text generation. Experiments show this approach outperforms strong autoregressive and variational baselines on standard text and image datasets.
Improved Variational Autoencoders for Text Modeling using Dilated   Convolutions.Recent work on generative modeling of text has found that variational auto-encoders (VAE) incorporating LSTM decoders perform worse than simpler LSTM language models (Bowman et al., 2015). This negative result is so far poorly understood, but has been attributed to the propensity of LSTM decoders to ignore conditioning information from the encoder. In this paper, we experiment with a new type of decoder for VAE: a dilated CNN. By changing the decoder's dilation architecture, we control the effective context from previously generated words. In experiments, we find that there is a trade off between the contextual capacity of the decoder and the amount of encoding information used. We show that with the right decoder, VAE can outperform LSTM language models. We demonstrate perplexity gains on two datasets, representing the first positive experimental result on the use VAE for generative modeling of text. Further, we conduct an in-depth investigation of the use of VAE (with our new decoding architecture) for semi-supervised and unsupervised labeling tasks, demonstrating gains over several strong baselines.
DP-GAN: Diversity-Promoting Generative Adversarial Network for   Generating Informative and Diversified Text.Existing text generation methods tend to produce repeated and "boring" expressions. To tackle this problem, we propose a new text generation model, called Diversity-Promoting Generative Adversarial Network (DP-GAN). The proposed model assigns low reward for repeatedly generated text and high reward for "novel" and fluent text, encouraging the generator to produce diverse and informative text. Moreover, we propose a novel language-model based discriminator, which can better distinguish novel text from repeated text without the saturation problem compared with existing classifier-based discriminators. The experimental results on review generation and dialogue generation tasks demonstrate that our model can generate substantially more diverse and informative text than existing baselines. The code is available at https://github.com/lancopku/DPGAN
Challenges in Data-to-Document Generation.Recent neural models have shown significant progress on the problem of generating short descriptive texts conditioned on a small number of database records. In this work, we suggest a slightly more difficult data-to-text generation task, and investigate how effective current approaches are on this task. In particular, we introduce a new, large-scale corpus of data records paired with descriptive documents, propose a series of extractive evaluation methods for analyzing performance, and obtain baseline results using current neural generation methods. Experiments show that these models produce fluent text, but fail to convincingly approximate human-generated documents. Moreover, even templated baselines exceed the performance of these neural models on some metrics, though copy- and reconstruction-based extensions lead to noticeable improvements.
ToTTo: A Controlled Table-To-Text Generation Dataset.We present ToTTo, an open-domain English table-to-text dataset with over 120,000 training examples that proposes a controlled generation task: given a Wikipedia table and a set of highlighted table cells, produce a one-sentence description. To obtain generated targets that are natural but also faithful to the source table, we introduce a dataset construction process where annotators directly revise existing candidate sentences from Wikipedia. We present systematic analyses of our dataset and annotation process as well as results achieved by several state-of-the-art baselines. While usually fluent, existing methods often hallucinate phrases that are not supported by the table, suggesting that this dataset can serve as a useful research benchmark for high-precision conditional text generation.
Deep Graph Convolutional Encoders for Structured Data to Text Generation.Most previous work on neural text generation from graph-structured data relies on standard sequence-to-sequence methods. These approaches linearise the input graph to be fed to a recurrent neural network. In this paper, we propose an alternative encoder based on graph convolutional networks that directly exploits the input structure. We report results on two graph-to-sequence datasets that empirically show the benefits of explicitly encoding the input graph structure.
Quantifying Generalization in Reinforcement Learning.In this paper, we investigate the problem of overfitting in deep reinforcement learning. Among the most common benchmarks in RL, it is customary to use the same environments for both training and testing. This practice offers relatively little insight into an agent's ability to generalize. We address this issue by using procedurally generated environments to construct distinct training and test sets. Most notably, we introduce a new environment called CoinRun, designed as a benchmark for generalization in RL. Using CoinRun, we find that agents overfit to surprisingly large training sets. We then show that deeper convolutional architectures improve generalization, as do methods traditionally found in supervised learning, including L2 regularization, dropout, data augmentation and batch normalization.
Data Augmentation Generative Adversarial Networks.Effective training of neural networks requires much data. In the low-data regime, parameters are underdetermined, and learnt networks generalise poorly. Data Augmentation alleviates this by using existing data more effectively. However standard data augmentation produces only limited plausible alternative data. Given there is potential to generate a much broader set of augmentations, we design and train a generative model to do data augmentation. The model, based on image conditional Generative Adversarial Networks, takes data from a source domain and learns to take any data item and generalise it to generate other within-class data items. As this generative process does not depend on the classes themselves, it can be applied to novel unseen classes of data. We show that a Data Augmentation Generative Adversarial Network (DAGAN) augments standard vanilla classifiers well. We also show a DAGAN can enhance few-shot learning systems such as Matching Networks. We demonstrate these approaches on Omniglot, on EMNIST having learnt the DAGAN on Omniglot, and VGG-Face data. In our experiments we can see over 13% increase in accuracy in the low-data regime experiments in Omniglot (from 69% to 82%), EMNIST (73.9% to 76%) and VGG-Face (4.5% to 12%); in Matching Networks for Omniglot we observe an increase of 0.5% (from 96.9% to 97.4%) and an increase of 1.8% in EMNIST (from 59.5% to 61.3%).
Schema-Guided Dialogue State Tracking Task at DSTC8.This paper gives an overview of the Schema-Guided Dialogue State Tracking task of the 8th Dialogue System Technology Challenge. The goal of this task is to develop dialogue state tracking models suitable for large-scale virtual assistants, with a focus on data-efficient joint modeling across domains and zero-shot generalization to new APIs. This task provided a new dataset consisting of over 16000 dialogues in the training set spanning 16 domains to highlight these challenges, and a baseline model capable of zero-shot generalization to new APIs. Twenty-five teams participated, developing a range of neural network models, exceeding the performance of the baseline model by a very high margin. The submissions incorporated a variety of pre-trained encoders and data augmentation techniques. This paper describes the task definition, dataset and evaluation methodology. We also summarize the approach and results of the submitted systems to highlight the overall trends in the state-of-the-art.
Neural Semantic Encoders.We present a memory augmented neural network for natural language understanding: Neural Semantic Encoders. NSE is equipped with a novel memory update rule and has a variable sized encoding memory that evolves over time and maintains the understanding of input sequences through read}, compose and write operations. NSE can also access multiple and shared memories. In this paper, we demonstrated the effectiveness and the flexibility of NSE on five different natural language tasks: natural language inference, question answering, sentence classification, document sentiment analysis and machine translation where NSE achieved state-of-the-art performance when evaluated on publically available benchmarks. For example, our shared-memory model showed an encouraging result on neural machine translation, improving an attention-based baseline by approximately 1.0 BLEU.
Understanding Pre-trained BERT for Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis.This paper analyzes the pre-trained hidden representations learned from reviews on BERT for tasks in aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA). Our work is motivated by the recent progress in BERT-based language models for ABSA. However, it is not clear how the general proxy task of (masked) language model trained on unlabeled corpus without annotations of aspects or opinions can provide important features for downstream tasks in ABSA. By leveraging the annotated datasets in ABSA, we investigate both the attentions and the learned representations of BERT pre-trained on reviews. We found that BERT uses very few self-attention heads to encode context words (such as prepositions or pronouns that indicating an aspect) and opinion words for an aspect. Most features in the representation of an aspect are dedicated to the fine-grained semantics of the domain (or product category) and the aspect itself, instead of carrying summarized opinions from its context. We hope this investigation can help future research in improving self-supervised learning, unsupervised learning and fine-tuning for ABSA. The pre-trained model and code can be found at https://github.com/howardhsu/BERT-for-RRC-ABSA.
Domain-Adversarial Training of Neural Networks.We introduce a new representation learning approach for domain adaptation, in which data at training and test time come from similar but different distributions. Our approach is directly inspired by the theory on domain adaptation suggesting that, for effective domain transfer to be achieved, predictions must be made based on features that cannot discriminate between the training (source) and test (target) domains. The approach implements this idea in the context of neural network architectures that are trained on labeled data from the source domain and unlabeled data from the target domain (no labeled target-domain data is necessary). As the training progresses, the approach promotes the emergence of features that are (i) discriminative for the main learning task on the source domain and (ii) indiscriminate with respect to the shift between the domains. We show that this adaptation behaviour can be achieved in almost any feed-forward model by augmenting it with few standard layers and a new gradient reversal layer. The resulting augmented architecture can be trained using standard backpropagation and stochastic gradient descent, and can thus be implemented with little effort using any of the deep learning packages. We demonstrate the success of our approach for two distinct classification problems (document sentiment analysis and image classification), where state-of-the-art domain adaptation performance on standard benchmarks is achieved. We also validate the approach for descriptor learning task in the context of person re-identification application.
Long Short-Term Memory-Networks for Machine Reading.In this paper we address the question of how to render sequence-level networks better at handling structured input. We propose a machine reading simulator which processes text incrementally from left to right and performs shallow reasoning with memory and attention. The reader extends the Long Short-Term Memory architecture with a memory network in place of a single memory cell. This enables adaptive memory usage during recurrence with neural attention, offering a way to weakly induce relations among tokens. The system is initially designed to process a single sequence but we also demonstrate how to integrate it with an encoder-decoder architecture. Experiments on language modeling, sentiment analysis, and natural language inference show that our model matches or outperforms the state of the art.
Dirichlet belief networks for topic structure learning.Recently, considerable research effort has been devoted to developing deep architectures for topic models to learn topic structures. Although several deep models have been proposed to learn better topic proportions of documents, how to leverage the benefits of deep structures for learning word distributions of topics has not yet been rigorously studied. Here we propose a new multi-layer generative process on word distributions of topics, where each layer consists of a set of topics and each topic is drawn from a mixture of the topics of the layer above. As the topics in all layers can be directly interpreted by words, the proposed model is able to discover interpretable topic hierarchies. As a self-contained module, our model can be flexibly adapted to different kinds of topic models to improve their modelling accuracy and interpretability. Extensive experiments on text corpora demonstrate the advantages of the proposed model.
Topic supervised non-negative matrix factorization.Topic models have been extensively used to organize and interpret the contents of large, unstructured corpora of text documents. Although topic models often perform well on traditional training vs. test set evaluations, it is often the case that the results of a topic model do not align with human interpretation. This interpretability fallacy is largely due to the unsupervised nature of topic models, which prohibits any user guidance on the results of a model. In this paper, we introduce a semi-supervised method called topic supervised non-negative matrix factorization (TS-NMF) that enables the user to provide labeled example documents to promote the discovery of more meaningful semantic structure of a corpus. In this way, the results of TS-NMF better match the intuition and desired labeling of the user. The core of TS-NMF relies on solving a non-convex optimization problem for which we derive an iterative algorithm that is shown to be monotonic and convergent to a local optimum. We demonstrate the practical utility of TS-NMF on the Reuters and PubMed corpora, and find that TS-NMF is especially useful for conceptual or broad topics, where topic key terms are not well understood. Although identifying an optimal latent structure for the data is not a primary objective of the proposed approach, we find that TS-NMF achieves higher weighted Jaccard similarity scores than the contemporary methods, (unsupervised) NMF and latent Dirichlet allocation, at supervision rates as low as 10% to 20%.
MetaLDA: a Topic Model that Efficiently Incorporates Meta information.Besides the text content, documents and their associated words usually come with rich sets of meta informa- tion, such as categories of documents and semantic/syntactic features of words, like those encoded in word embeddings. Incorporating such meta information directly into the generative process of topic models can improve modelling accuracy and topic quality, especially in the case where the word-occurrence information in the training data is insufficient. In this paper, we present a topic model, called MetaLDA, which is able to leverage either document or word meta information, or both of them jointly. With two data argumentation techniques, we can derive an efficient Gibbs sampling algorithm, which benefits from the fully local conjugacy of the model. Moreover, the algorithm is favoured by the sparsity of the meta information. Extensive experiments on several real world datasets demonstrate that our model achieves comparable or improved performance in terms of both perplexity and topic quality, particularly in handling sparse texts. In addition, compared with other models using meta information, our model runs significantly faster.
Fast, Flexible Models for Discovering Topic Correlation across   Weakly-Related Collections.Weak topic correlation across document collections with different numbers of topics in individual collections presents challenges for existing cross-collection topic models. This paper introduces two probabilistic topic models, Correlated LDA (C-LDA) and Correlated HDP (C-HDP). These address problems that can arise when analyzing large, asymmetric, and potentially weakly-related collections. Topic correlations in weakly-related collections typically lie in the tail of the topic distribution, where they would be overlooked by models unable to fit large numbers of topics. To efficiently model this long tail for large-scale analysis, our models implement a parallel sampling algorithm based on the Metropolis-Hastings and alias methods (Yuan et al., 2015). The models are first evaluated on synthetic data, generated to simulate various collection-level asymmetries. We then present a case study of modeling over 300k documents in collections of sciences and humanities research from JSTOR.
Explainable and Discourse Topic-aware Neural Language Understanding.Marrying topic models and language models exposes language understanding to a broader source of document-level context beyond sentences via topics. While introducing topical semantics in language models, existing approaches incorporate latent document topic proportions and ignore topical discourse in sentences of the document. This work extends the line of research by additionally introducing an explainable topic representation in language understanding, obtained from a set of key terms correspondingly for each latent topic of the proportion. Moreover, we retain sentence-topic associations along with document-topic association by modeling topical discourse for every sentence in the document. We present a novel neural composite language model that exploits both the latent and explainable topics along with topical discourse at sentence-level in a joint learning framework of topic and language models. Experiments over a range of tasks such as language modeling, word sense disambiguation, document classification, retrieval and text generation demonstrate ability of the proposed model in improving language understanding.
On a Guided Nonnegative Matrix Factorization.Fully unsupervised topic models have found fantastic success in document clustering and classification. However, these models often suffer from the tendency to learn less-than-meaningful or even redundant topics when the data is biased towards a set of features. For this reason, we propose an approach based upon the nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) model, deemed \textit{Guided NMF}, that incorporates user-designed seed word supervision. Our experimental results demonstrate the promise of this model and illustrate that it is competitive with other methods of this ilk with only very little supervision information.
Deconvolutional Paragraph Representation Learning.Learning latent representations from long text sequences is an important first step in many natural language processing applications. Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) have become a cornerstone for this challenging task. However, the quality of sentences during RNN-based decoding (reconstruction) decreases with the length of the text. We propose a sequence-to-sequence, purely convolutional and deconvolutional autoencoding framework that is free of the above issue, while also being computationally efficient. The proposed method is simple, easy to implement and can be leveraged as a building block for many applications. We show empirically that compared to RNNs, our framework is better at reconstructing and correcting long paragraphs. Quantitative evaluation on semi-supervised text classification and summarization tasks demonstrate the potential for better utilization of long unlabeled text data.
Few-shot Text Classification with Distributional Signatures.In this paper, we explore meta-learning for few-shot text classification. Meta-learning has shown strong performance in computer vision, where low-level patterns are transferable across learning tasks. However, directly applying this approach to text is challenging--lexical features highly informative for one task may be insignificant for another. Thus, rather than learning solely from words, our model also leverages their distributional signatures, which encode pertinent word occurrence patterns. Our model is trained within a meta-learning framework to map these signatures into attention scores, which are then used to weight the lexical representations of words. We demonstrate that our model consistently outperforms prototypical networks learned on lexical knowledge (Snell et al., 2017) in both few-shot text classification and relation classification by a significant margin across six benchmark datasets (20.0% on average in 1-shot classification).
ML-Net: multi-label classification of biomedical texts with deep neural   networks.In multi-label text classification, each textual document can be assigned with one or more labels. Due to this nature, the multi-label text classification task is often considered to be more challenging compared to the binary or multi-class text classification problems. As an important task with broad applications in biomedicine such as assigning diagnosis codes, a number of different computational methods (e.g. training and combining binary classifiers for each label) have been proposed in recent years. However, many suffered from modest accuracy and efficiency, with only limited success in practical use. We propose ML-Net, a novel deep learning framework, for multi-label classification of biomedical texts. As an end-to-end system, ML-Net combines a label prediction network with an automated label count prediction mechanism to output an optimal set of labels by leveraging both predicted confidence score of each label and the contextual information in the target document. We evaluate ML-Net on three independent, publicly-available corpora in two kinds of text genres: biomedical literature and clinical notes. For evaluation, example-based measures such as precision, recall and f-measure are used. ML-Net is compared with several competitive machine learning baseline models. Our benchmarking results show that ML-Net compares favorably to the state-of-the-art methods in multi-label classification of biomedical texts. ML-NET is also shown to be robust when evaluated on different text genres in biomedicine. Unlike traditional machine learning methods, ML-Net does not require human efforts in feature engineering and is highly efficient and scalable approach to tasks with a large set of labels (no need to build individual classifiers for each separate label). Finally, ML-NET is able to dynamically estimate the label count based on the document context in a more systematic and accurate manner.
On the Use of ArXiv as a Dataset.The arXiv has collected 1.5 million pre-print articles over 28 years, hosting literature from scientific fields including Physics, Mathematics, and Computer Science. Each pre-print features text, figures, authors, citations, categories, and other metadata. These rich, multi-modal features, combined with the natural graph structure---created by citation, affiliation, and co-authorship---makes the arXiv an exciting candidate for benchmarking next-generation models. Here we take the first necessary steps toward this goal, by providing a pipeline which standardizes and simplifies access to the arXiv's publicly available data. We use this pipeline to extract and analyze a 6.7 million edge citation graph, with an 11 billion word corpus of full-text research articles. We present some baseline classification results, and motivate application of more exciting generative graph models.
Sentence-State LSTM for Text Representation.Bi-directional LSTMs are a powerful tool for text representation. On the other hand, they have been shown to suffer various limitations due to their sequential nature. We investigate an alternative LSTM structure for encoding text, which consists of a parallel state for each word. Recurrent steps are used to perform local and global information exchange between words simultaneously, rather than incremental reading of a sequence of words. Results on various classification and sequence labelling benchmarks show that the proposed model has strong representation power, giving highly competitive performances compared to stacked BiLSTM models with similar parameter numbers.
A C-LSTM Neural Network for Text Classification.Neural network models have been demonstrated to be capable of achieving remarkable performance in sentence and document modeling. Convolutional neural network (CNN) and recurrent neural network (RNN) are two mainstream architectures for such modeling tasks, which adopt totally different ways of understanding natural languages. In this work, we combine the strengths of both architectures and propose a novel and unified model called C-LSTM for sentence representation and text classification. C-LSTM utilizes CNN to extract a sequence of higher-level phrase representations, and are fed into a long short-term memory recurrent neural network (LSTM) to obtain the sentence representation. C-LSTM is able to capture both local features of phrases as well as global and temporal sentence semantics. We evaluate the proposed architecture on sentiment classification and question classification tasks. The experimental results show that the C-LSTM outperforms both CNN and LSTM and can achieve excellent performance on these tasks.
Semantic-Unit-Based Dilated Convolution for Multi-Label Text   Classification.We propose a novel model for multi-label text classification, which is based on sequence-to-sequence learning. The model generates higher-level semantic unit representations with multi-level dilated convolution as well as a corresponding hybrid attention mechanism that extracts both the information at the word-level and the level of the semantic unit. Our designed dilated convolution effectively reduces dimension and supports an exponential expansion of receptive fields without loss of local information, and the attention-over-attention mechanism is able to capture more summary relevant information from the source context. Results of our experiments show that the proposed model has significant advantages over the baseline models on the dataset RCV1-V2 and Ren-CECps, and our analysis demonstrates that our model is competitive to the deterministic hierarchical models and it is more robust to classifying low-frequency labels.
ESPNetv2: A Light-weight, Power Efficient, and General Purpose   Convolutional Neural Network.We introduce a light-weight, power efficient, and general purpose convolutional neural network, ESPNetv2, for modeling visual and sequential data. Our network uses group point-wise and depth-wise dilated separable convolutions to learn representations from a large effective receptive field with fewer FLOPs and parameters. The performance of our network is evaluated on four different tasks: (1) object classification, (2) semantic segmentation, (3) object detection, and (4) language modeling. Experiments on these tasks, including image classification on the ImageNet and language modeling on the PenTree bank dataset, demonstrate the superior performance of our method over the state-of-the-art methods. Our network outperforms ESPNet by 4-5% and has 2-4x fewer FLOPs on the PASCAL VOC and the Cityscapes dataset. Compared to YOLOv2 on the MS-COCO object detection, ESPNetv2 delivers 4.4% higher accuracy with 6x fewer FLOPs. Our experiments show that ESPNetv2 is much more power efficient than existing state-of-the-art efficient methods including ShuffleNets and MobileNets. Our code is open-source and available at https://github.com/sacmehta/ESPNetv2
An Analysis of Neural Language Modeling at Multiple Scales.Many of the leading approaches in language modeling introduce novel, complex and specialized architectures. We take existing state-of-the-art word level language models based on LSTMs and QRNNs and extend them to both larger vocabularies as well as character-level granularity. When properly tuned, LSTMs and QRNNs achieve state-of-the-art results on character-level (Penn Treebank, enwik8) and word-level (WikiText-103) datasets, respectively. Results are obtained in only 12 hours (WikiText-103) to 2 days (enwik8) using a single modern GPU.
End-To-End Memory Networks.We introduce a neural network with a recurrent attention model over a possibly large external memory. The architecture is a form of Memory Network (Weston et al., 2015) but unlike the model in that work, it is trained end-to-end, and hence requires significantly less supervision during training, making it more generally applicable in realistic settings. It can also be seen as an extension of RNNsearch to the case where multiple computational steps (hops) are performed per output symbol. The flexibility of the model allows us to apply it to tasks as diverse as (synthetic) question answering and to language modeling. For the former our approach is competitive with Memory Networks, but with less supervision. For the latter, on the Penn TreeBank and Text8 datasets our approach demonstrates comparable performance to RNNs and LSTMs. In both cases we show that the key concept of multiple computational hops yields improved results.
InfoXLM: An Information-Theoretic Framework for Cross-Lingual Language   Model Pre-Training.In this work, we formulate cross-lingual language model pre-training as maximizing mutual information between multilingual-multi-granularity texts. The unified view helps us to better understand the existing methods for learning cross-lingual representations. More importantly, the information-theoretic framework inspires us to propose a pre-training task based on contrastive learning. Given a bilingual sentence pair, we regard them as two views of the same meaning, and encourage their encoded representations to be more similar than the negative examples. By leveraging both monolingual and parallel corpora, we jointly train the pretext tasks to improve the cross-lingual transferability of pre-trained models. Experimental results on several benchmarks show that our approach achieves considerably better performance. The code and pre-trained models are available at http://aka.ms/infoxlm.
UniLMv2: Pseudo-Masked Language Models for Unified Language Model   Pre-Training.We propose to pre-train a unified language model for both autoencoding and partially autoregressive language modeling tasks using a novel training procedure, referred to as a pseudo-masked language model (PMLM). Given an input text with masked tokens, we rely on conventional masks to learn inter-relations between corrupted tokens and context via autoencoding, and pseudo masks to learn intra-relations between masked spans via partially autoregressive modeling. With well-designed position embeddings and self-attention masks, the context encodings are reused to avoid redundant computation. Moreover, conventional masks used for autoencoding provide global masking information, so that all the position embeddings are accessible in partially autoregressive language modeling. In addition, the two tasks pre-train a unified language model as a bidirectional encoder and a sequence-to-sequence decoder, respectively. Our experiments show that the unified language models pre-trained using PMLM achieve new state-of-the-art results on a wide range of natural language understanding and generation tasks across several widely used benchmarks.
Unified Language Model Pre-training for Natural Language Understanding   and Generation.This paper presents a new Unified pre-trained Language Model (UniLM) that can be fine-tuned for both natural language understanding and generation tasks. The model is pre-trained using three types of language modeling tasks: unidirectional, bidirectional, and sequence-to-sequence prediction. The unified modeling is achieved by employing a shared Transformer network and utilizing specific self-attention masks to control what context the prediction conditions on. UniLM compares favorably with BERT on the GLUE benchmark, and the SQuAD 2.0 and CoQA question answering tasks. Moreover, UniLM achieves new state-of-the-art results on five natural language generation datasets, including improving the CNN/DailyMail abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 40.51 (2.04 absolute improvement), the Gigaword abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 35.75 (0.86 absolute improvement), the CoQA generative question answering F1 score to 82.5 (37.1 absolute improvement), the SQuAD question generation BLEU-4 to 22.12 (3.75 absolute improvement), and the DSTC7 document-grounded dialog response generation NIST-4 to 2.67 (human performance is 2.65). The code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/microsoft/unilm.
GPipe: Efficient Training of Giant Neural Networks using Pipeline   Parallelism.Scaling up deep neural network capacity has been known as an effective approach to improving model quality for several different machine learning tasks. In many cases, increasing model capacity beyond the memory limit of a single accelerator has required developing special algorithms or infrastructure. These solutions are often architecture-specific and do not transfer to other tasks. To address the need for efficient and task-independent model parallelism, we introduce GPipe, a pipeline parallelism library that allows scaling any network that can be expressed as a sequence of layers. By pipelining different sub-sequences of layers on separate accelerators, GPipe provides the flexibility of scaling a variety of different networks to gigantic sizes efficiently. Moreover, GPipe utilizes a novel batch-splitting pipelining algorithm, resulting in almost linear speedup when a model is partitioned across multiple accelerators. We demonstrate the advantages of GPipe by training large-scale neural networks on two different tasks with distinct network architectures: (i) Image Classification: We train a 557-million-parameter AmoebaNet model and attain a top-1 accuracy of 84.4% on ImageNet-2012, (ii) Multilingual Neural Machine Translation: We train a single 6-billion-parameter, 128-layer Transformer model on a corpus spanning over 100 languages and achieve better quality than all bilingual models.
Unsupervised Neural Machine Translation.In spite of the recent success of neural machine translation (NMT) in standard benchmarks, the lack of large parallel corpora poses a major practical problem for many language pairs. There have been several proposals to alleviate this issue with, for instance, triangulation and semi-supervised learning techniques, but they still require a strong cross-lingual signal. In this work, we completely remove the need of parallel data and propose a novel method to train an NMT system in a completely unsupervised manner, relying on nothing but monolingual corpora. Our model builds upon the recent work on unsupervised embedding mappings, and consists of a slightly modified attentional encoder-decoder model that can be trained on monolingual corpora alone using a combination of denoising and backtranslation. Despite the simplicity of the approach, our system obtains 15.56 and 10.21 BLEU points in WMT 2014 French-to-English and German-to-English translation. The model can also profit from small parallel corpora, and attains 21.81 and 15.24 points when combined with 100,000 parallel sentences, respectively. Our implementation is released as an open source project.
On Adversarial Examples for Character-Level Neural Machine Translation.Evaluating on adversarial examples has become a standard procedure to measure robustness of deep learning models. Due to the difficulty of creating white-box adversarial examples for discrete text input, most analyses of the robustness of NLP models have been done through black-box adversarial examples. We investigate adversarial examples for character-level neural machine translation (NMT), and contrast black-box adversaries with a novel white-box adversary, which employs differentiable string-edit operations to rank adversarial changes. We propose two novel types of attacks which aim to remove or change a word in a translation, rather than simply break the NMT. We demonstrate that white-box adversarial examples are significantly stronger than their black-box counterparts in different attack scenarios, which show more serious vulnerabilities than previously known. In addition, after performing adversarial training, which takes only 3 times longer than regular training, we can improve the model's robustness significantly.
Synthetic and Natural Noise Both Break Neural Machine Translation.Character-based neural machine translation (NMT) models alleviate out-of-vocabulary issues, learn morphology, and move us closer to completely end-to-end translation systems. Unfortunately, they are also very brittle and easily falter when presented with noisy data. In this paper, we confront NMT models with synthetic and natural sources of noise. We find that state-of-the-art models fail to translate even moderately noisy texts that humans have no trouble comprehending. We explore two approaches to increase model robustness: structure-invariant word representations and robust training on noisy texts. We find that a model based on a character convolutional neural network is able to simultaneously learn representations robust to multiple kinds of noise.
Segmental Recurrent Neural Networks.We introduce segmental recurrent neural networks (SRNNs) which define, given an input sequence, a joint probability distribution over segmentations of the input and labelings of the segments. Representations of the input segments (i.e., contiguous subsequences of the input) are computed by encoding their constituent tokens using bidirectional recurrent neural nets, and these "segment embeddings" are used to define compatibility scores with output labels. These local compatibility scores are integrated using a global semi-Markov conditional random field. Both fully supervised training -- in which segment boundaries and labels are observed -- as well as partially supervised training -- in which segment boundaries are latent -- are straightforward. Experiments on handwriting recognition and joint Chinese word segmentation/POS tagging show that, compared to models that do not explicitly represent segments such as BIO tagging schemes and connectionist temporal classification (CTC), SRNNs obtain substantially higher accuracies.
MICE: Mining Idioms with Contextual Embeddings.Idiomatic expressions can be problematic for natural language processing applications as their meaning cannot be inferred from their constituting words. A lack of successful methodological approaches and sufficiently large datasets prevents the development of machine learning approaches for detecting idioms, especially for expressions that do not occur in the training set. We present an approach, called MICE, that uses contextual embeddings for that purpose. We present a new dataset of multi-word expressions with literal and idiomatic meanings and use it to train a classifier based on two state-of-the-art contextual word embeddings: ELMo and BERT. We show that deep neural networks using both embeddings perform much better than existing approaches, and are capable of detecting idiomatic word use, even for expressions that were not present in the training set. We demonstrate cross-lingual transfer of developed models and analyze the size of the required dataset.
VCWE: Visual Character-Enhanced Word Embeddings.Chinese is a logographic writing system, and the shape of Chinese characters contain rich syntactic and semantic information. In this paper, we propose a model to learn Chinese word embeddings via three-level composition: (1) a convolutional neural network to extract the intra-character compositionality from the visual shape of a character; (2) a recurrent neural network with self-attention to compose character representation into word embeddings; (3) the Skip-Gram framework to capture non-compositionality directly from the contextual information. Evaluations demonstrate the superior performance of our model on four tasks: word similarity, sentiment analysis, named entity recognition and part-of-speech tagging.
Automated Concatenation of Embeddings for Structured Prediction.Pretrained contextualized embeddings are powerful word representations for structured prediction tasks. Recent work found that better word representations can be obtained by concatenating different types of embeddings. However, the selection of embeddings to form the best concatenated representation usually varies depending on the task and the collection of candidate embeddings, and the ever-increasing number of embedding types makes it a more difficult problem. In this paper, we propose Automated Concatenation of Embeddings (ACE) to automate the process of finding better concatenations of embeddings for structured prediction tasks, based on a formulation inspired by recent progress on neural architecture search. Specifically, a controller alternately samples a concatenation of embeddings, according to its current belief of the effectiveness of individual embedding types in consideration for a task, and updates the belief based on a reward. We follow strategies in reinforcement learning to optimize the parameters of the controller and compute the reward based on the accuracy of a task model, which is fed with the sampled concatenation as input and trained on a task dataset. Empirical results on 6 tasks and 21 datasets show that our approach outperforms strong baselines and achieves state-of-the-art performance with fine-tuned embeddings in the vast majority of evaluations.
Toward a Standardized and More Accurate Indonesian Part-of-Speech   Tagging.Previous work in Indonesian part-of-speech (POS) tagging are hard to compare as they are not evaluated on a common dataset. Furthermore, in spite of the success of neural network models for English POS tagging, they are rarely explored for Indonesian. In this paper, we explored various techniques for Indonesian POS tagging, including rule-based, CRF, and neural network-based models. We evaluated our models on the IDN Tagged Corpus. A new state-of-the-art of 97.47 F1 score is achieved with a recurrent neural network. To provide a standard for future work, we release the dataset split that we used publicly.
Facial Emotion Recognition with Noisy Multi-task Annotations.Human emotions can be inferred from facial expressions. However, the annotations of facial expressions are often highly noisy in common emotion coding models, including categorical and dimensional ones. To reduce human labelling effort on multi-task labels, we introduce a new problem of facial emotion recognition with noisy multi-task annotations. For this new problem, we suggest a formulation from the point of joint distribution match view, which aims at learning more reliable correlations among raw facial images and multi-task labels, resulting in the reduction of noise influence. In our formulation, we exploit a new method to enable the emotion prediction and the joint distribution learning in a unified adversarial learning game. Evaluation throughout extensive experiments studies the real setups of the suggested new problem, as well as the clear superiority of the proposed method over the state-of-the-art competing methods on either the synthetic noisy labeled CIFAR-10 or practical noisy multi-task labeled RAF and AffectNet. The code is available at https://github.com/sanweiliti/noisyFER.
Modulated Fusion using Transformer for Linguistic-Acoustic Emotion   Recognition.This paper aims to bring a new lightweight yet powerful solution for the task of Emotion Recognition and Sentiment Analysis. Our motivation is to propose two architectures based on Transformers and modulation that combine the linguistic and acoustic inputs from a wide range of datasets to challenge, and sometimes surpass, the state-of-the-art in the field. To demonstrate the efficiency of our models, we carefully evaluate their performances on the IEMOCAP, MOSI, MOSEI and MELD dataset. The experiments can be directly replicated and the code is fully open for future researches.
Graph Neural Networks for Image Understanding Based on Multiple Cues:   Group Emotion Recognition and Event Recognition as Use Cases.A graph neural network (GNN) for image understanding based on multiple cues is proposed in this paper. Compared to traditional feature and decision fusion approaches that neglect the fact that features can interact and exchange information, the proposed GNN is able to pass information among features extracted from different models. Two image understanding tasks, namely group-level emotion recognition (GER) and event recognition, which are highly semantic and require the interaction of several deep models to synthesize multiple cues, were selected to validate the performance of the proposed method. It is shown through experiments that the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the selected image understanding tasks. In addition, a new group-level emotion recognition database is introduced and shared in this paper.
DialogXL: All-in-One XLNet for Multi-Party Conversation Emotion   Recognition.This paper presents our pioneering effort for emotion recognition in conversation (ERC) with pre-trained language models. Unlike regular documents, conversational utterances appear alternately from different parties and are usually organized as hierarchical structures in previous work. Such structures are not conducive to the application of pre-trained language models such as XLNet. To address this issue, we propose an all-in-one XLNet model, namely DialogXL, with enhanced memory to store longer historical context and dialog-aware self-attention to deal with the multi-party structures. Specifically, we first modify the recurrence mechanism of XLNet from segment-level to utterance-level in order to better model the conversational data. Second, we introduce dialog-aware self-attention in replacement of the vanilla self-attention in XLNet to capture useful intra- and inter-speaker dependencies. Extensive experiments are conducted on four ERC benchmarks with mainstream models presented for comparison. The experimental results show that the proposed model outperforms the baselines on all the datasets. Several other experiments such as ablation study and error analysis are also conducted and the results confirm the role of the critical modules of DialogXL.
Efficient Arabic emotion recognition using deep neural networks.Emotion recognition from speech signal based on deep learning is an active research area. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) may be the dominant method in this area. In this paper, we implement two neural architectures to address this problem. The first architecture is an attention-based CNN-LSTM-DNN model. In this novel architecture, the convolutional layers extract salient features and the bi-directional long short-term memory (BLSTM) layers handle the sequential phenomena of the speech signal. This is followed by an attention layer, which extracts a summary vector that is fed to the fully connected dense layer (DNN), which finally connects to a softmax output layer. The second architecture is based on a deep CNN model. The results on an Arabic speech emotion recognition task show that our innovative approach can lead to significant improvements (2.2% absolute improvements) over a strong deep CNN baseline system. On the other hand, the deep CNN models are significantly faster than the attention based CNN-LSTM-DNN models in training and classification.
Evaluating Scoped Meaning Representations.Semantic parsing offers many opportunities to improve natural language understanding. We present a semantically annotated parallel corpus for English, German, Italian, and Dutch where sentences are aligned with scoped meaning representations in order to capture the semantics of negation, modals, quantification, and presupposition triggers. The semantic formalism is based on Discourse Representation Theory, but concepts are represented by WordNet synsets and thematic roles by VerbNet relations. Translating scoped meaning representations to sets of clauses enables us to compare them for the purpose of semantic parser evaluation and checking translations. This is done by computing precision and recall on matching clauses, in a similar way as is done for Abstract Meaning Representations. We show that our matching tool for evaluating scoped meaning representations is both accurate and efficient. Applying this matching tool to three baseline semantic parsers yields F-scores between 43% and 54%. A pilot study is performed to automatically find changes in meaning by comparing meaning representations of translations. This comparison turns out to be an additional way of (i) finding annotation mistakes and (ii) finding instances where our semantic analysis needs to be improved.
Learning Semantic Parsers from Denotations with Latent Structured   Alignments and Abstract Programs.Semantic parsing aims to map natural language utterances onto machine interpretable meaning representations, aka programs whose execution against a real-world environment produces a denotation. Weakly-supervised semantic parsers are trained on utterance-denotation pairs treating programs as latent. The task is challenging due to the large search space and spuriousness of programs which may execute to the correct answer but do not generalize to unseen examples. Our goal is to instill an inductive bias in the parser to help it distinguish between spurious and correct programs. We capitalize on the intuition that correct programs would likely respect certain structural constraints were they to be aligned to the question (e.g., program fragments are unlikely to align to overlapping text spans) and propose to model alignments as structured latent variables. In order to make the latent-alignment framework tractable, we decompose the parsing task into (1) predicting a partial "abstract program" and (2) refining it while modeling structured alignments with differential dynamic programming. We obtain state-of-the-art performance on the WIKITABLEQUESTIONS and WIKISQL datasets. When compared to a standard attention baseline, we observe that the proposed structured-alignment mechanism is highly beneficial.
Syntax-aware Neural Semantic Role Labeling.Semantic role labeling (SRL), also known as shallow semantic parsing, is an important yet challenging task in NLP. Motivated by the close correlation between syntactic and semantic structures, traditional discrete-feature-based SRL approaches make heavy use of syntactic features. In contrast, deep-neural-network-based approaches usually encode the input sentence as a word sequence without considering the syntactic structures. In this work, we investigate several previous approaches for encoding syntactic trees, and make a thorough study on whether extra syntax-aware representations are beneficial for neural SRL models. Experiments on the benchmark CoNLL-2005 dataset show that syntax-aware SRL approaches can effectively improve performance over a strong baseline with external word representations from ELMo. With the extra syntax-aware representations, our approaches achieve new state-of-the-art 85.6 F1 (single model) and 86.6 F1 (ensemble) on the test data, outperforming the corresponding strong baselines with ELMo by 0.8 and 1.0, respectively. Detailed error analysis are conducted to gain more insights on the investigated approaches.
Table2answer: Read the database and answer without SQL.Semantic parsing is the task of mapping natural language to logic form. In question answering, semantic parsing can be used to map the question to logic form and execute the logic form to get the answer. One key problem for semantic parsing is the hard label work. We study this problem in another way: we do not use the logic form any more. Instead we only use the schema and answer info. We think that the logic form step can be injected into the deep model. The reason why we think removing the logic form step is possible is that human can do the task without explicit logic form. We use BERT-based model and do the experiment in the WikiSQL dataset, which is a large natural language to SQL dataset. Our experimental evaluations that show that our model can achieves the baseline results in WikiSQL dataset.
Decoupling Structure and Lexicon for Zero-Shot Semantic Parsing.Building a semantic parser quickly in a new domain is a fundamental challenge for conversational interfaces, as current semantic parsers require expensive supervision and lack the ability to generalize to new domains. In this paper, we introduce a zero-shot approach to semantic parsing that can parse utterances in unseen domains while only being trained on examples in other source domains. First, we map an utterance to an abstract, domain-independent, logical form that represents the structure of the logical form, but contains slots instead of KB constants. Then, we replace slots with KB constants via lexical alignment scores and global inference. Our model reaches an average accuracy of 53.4% on 7 domains in the Overnight dataset, substantially better than other zero-shot baselines, and performs as good as a parser trained on over 30% of the target domain examples.
Neural Semantic Parsing by Character-based Translation: Experiments with   Abstract Meaning Representations.We evaluate the character-level translation method for neural semantic parsing on a large corpus of sentences annotated with Abstract Meaning Representations (AMRs). Using a sequence-to-sequence model, and some trivial preprocessing and postprocessing of AMRs, we obtain a baseline accuracy of 53.1 (F-score on AMR-triples). We examine five different approaches to improve this baseline result: (i) reordering AMR branches to match the word order of the input sentence increases performance to 58.3; (ii) adding part-of-speech tags (automatically produced) to the input shows improvement as well (57.2); (iii) So does the introduction of super characters (conflating frequent sequences of characters to a single character), reaching 57.4; (iv) optimizing the training process by using pre-training and averaging a set of models increases performance to 58.7; (v) adding silver-standard training data obtained by an off-the-shelf parser yields the biggest improvement, resulting in an F-score of 64.0. Combining all five techniques leads to an F-score of 71.0 on holdout data, which is state-of-the-art in AMR parsing. This is remarkable because of the relative simplicity of the approach.
Cross-domain Semantic Parsing via Paraphrasing.Existing studies on semantic parsing mainly focus on the in-domain setting. We formulate cross-domain semantic parsing as a domain adaptation problem: train a semantic parser on some source domains and then adapt it to the target domain. Due to the diversity of logical forms in different domains, this problem presents unique and intriguing challenges. By converting logical forms into canonical utterances in natural language, we reduce semantic parsing to paraphrasing, and develop an attentive sequence-to-sequence paraphrase model that is general and flexible to adapt to different domains. We discover two problems, small micro variance and large macro variance, of pre-trained word embeddings that hinder their direct use in neural networks, and propose standardization techniques as a remedy. On the popular Overnight dataset, which contains eight domains, we show that both cross-domain training and standardized pre-trained word embeddings can bring significant improvement.
Establishing Strong Baselines for the New Decade: Sequence Tagging,   Syntactic and Semantic Parsing with BERT.This paper presents new state-of-the-art models for three tasks, part-of-speech tagging, syntactic parsing, and semantic parsing, using the cutting-edge contextualized embedding framework known as BERT. For each task, we first replicate and simplify the current state-of-the-art approach to enhance its model efficiency. We then evaluate our simplified approaches on those three tasks using token embeddings generated by BERT. 12 datasets in both English and Chinese are used for our experiments. The BERT models outperform the previously best-performing models by 2.5% on average (7.5% for the most significant case). Moreover, an in-depth analysis on the impact of BERT embeddings is provided using self-attention, which helps understanding in this rich yet representation. All models and source codes are available in public so that researchers can improve upon and utilize them to establish strong baselines for the next decade.
Supervised Online Hashing via Hadamard Codebook Learning.In recent years, binary code learning, a.k.a hashing, has received extensive attention in large-scale multimedia retrieval. It aims to encode high-dimensional data points to binary codes, hence the original high-dimensional metric space can be efficiently approximated via Hamming space. However, most existing hashing methods adopted offline batch learning, which is not suitable to handle incremental datasets with streaming data or new instances. In contrast, the robustness of the existing online hashing remains as an open problem, while the embedding of supervised/semantic information hardly boosts the performance of the online hashing, mainly due to the defect of unknown category numbers in supervised learning. In this paper, we proposed an online hashing scheme, termed Hadamard Codebook based Online Hashing (HCOH), which aims to solve the above problems towards robust and supervised online hashing. In particular, we first assign an appropriate high-dimensional binary codes to each class label, which is generated randomly by Hadamard codes to each class label, which is generated randomly by Hadamard codes. Subsequently, LSH is adopted to reduce the length of such Hadamard codes in accordance with the hash bits, which can adapt the predefined binary codes online, and theoretically guarantee the semantic similarity. Finally, we consider the setting of stochastic data acquisition, which facilitates our method to efficiently learn the corresponding hashing functions via stochastic gradient descend (SGD) online. Notably, the proposed HCOH can be embedded with supervised labels and it not limited to a predefined category number. Extensive experiments on three widely-used benchmarks demonstrate the merits of the proposed scheme over the state-of-the-art methods. The code is available at https://github.com/lmbxmu/mycode/tree/master/2018ACMMM_HCOH.
Word Similarity Datasets for Thai: Construction and Evaluation.Distributional semantics in the form of word embeddings are an essential ingredient to many modern natural language processing systems. The quantification of semantic similarity between words can be used to evaluate the ability of a system to perform semantic interpretation. To this end, a number of word similarity datasets have been created for the English language over the last decades. For Thai language few such resources are available. In this work, we create three Thai word similarity datasets by translating and re-rating the popular WordSim-353, SimLex-999 and SemEval-2017-Task-2 datasets. The three datasets contain 1852 word pairs in total and have different characteristics in terms of difficulty, domain coverage, and notion of similarity (relatedness vs.~similarity). These features help to gain a broader picture of the properties of an evaluated word embedding model. We include baseline evaluations with existing Thai embedding models, and identify the high ratio of out-of-vocabulary words as one of the biggest challenges. All datasets, evaluation results, and a tool for easy evaluation of new Thai embedding models are available to the NLP community online.
Learning to Encode Position for Transformer with Continuous Dynamical   Model.We introduce a new way of learning to encode position information for non-recurrent models, such as Transformer models. Unlike RNN and LSTM, which contain inductive bias by loading the input tokens sequentially, non-recurrent models are less sensitive to position. The main reason is that position information among input units is not inherently encoded, i.e., the models are permutation equivalent; this problem justifies why all of the existing models are accompanied by a sinusoidal encoding/embedding layer at the input. However, this solution has clear limitations: the sinusoidal encoding is not flexible enough as it is manually designed and does not contain any learnable parameters, whereas the position embedding restricts the maximum length of input sequences. It is thus desirable to design a new position layer that contains learnable parameters to adjust to different datasets and different architectures. At the same time, we would also like the encodings to extrapolate in accordance with the variable length of inputs. In our proposed solution, we borrow from the recent Neural ODE approach, which may be viewed as a versatile continuous version of a ResNet. This model is capable of modeling many kinds of dynamical systems. We model the evolution of encoded results along position index by such a dynamical system, thereby overcoming the above limitations of existing methods. We evaluate our new position layers on a variety of neural machine translation and language understanding tasks, the experimental results show consistent improvements over the baselines.
MoralStrength: Exploiting a Moral Lexicon and Embedding Similarity for   Moral Foundations Prediction.Moral rhetoric plays a fundamental role in how we perceive and interpret the information we receive, greatly influencing our decision-making process. Especially when it comes to controversial social and political issues, our opinions and attitudes are hardly ever based on evidence alone. The Moral Foundations Dictionary (MFD) was developed to operationalize moral values in the text. In this study, we present MoralStrength, a lexicon of approximately 1,000 lemmas, obtained as an extension of the Moral Foundations Dictionary, based on WordNet synsets. Moreover, for each lemma it provides with a crowdsourced numeric assessment of Moral Valence, indicating the strength with which a lemma is expressing the specific value. We evaluated the predictive potentials of this moral lexicon, defining three utilization approaches of increased complexity, ranging from lemmas' statistical properties to a deep learning approach of word embeddings based on semantic similarity. Logistic regression models trained on the features extracted from MoralStrength, significantly outperformed the current state-of-the-art, reaching an F1-score of 87.6% over the previous 62.4% (p-value<0.01), and an average F1-Score of 86.25% over six different datasets. Such findings pave the way for further research, allowing for an in-depth understanding of moral narratives in text for a wide range of social issues.
MASKER: Masked Keyword Regularization for Reliable Text Classification.Pre-trained language models have achieved state-of-the-art accuracies on various text classification tasks, e.g., sentiment analysis, natural language inference, and semantic textual similarity. However, the reliability of the fine-tuned text classifiers is an often underlooked performance criterion. For instance, one may desire a model that can detect out-of-distribution (OOD) samples (drawn far from training distribution) or be robust against domain shifts. We claim that one central obstacle to the reliability is the over-reliance of the model on a limited number of keywords, instead of looking at the whole context. In particular, we find that (a) OOD samples often contain in-distribution keywords, while (b) cross-domain samples may not always contain keywords; over-relying on the keywords can be problematic for both cases. In light of this observation, we propose a simple yet effective fine-tuning method, coined masked keyword regularization (MASKER), that facilitates context-based prediction. MASKER regularizes the model to reconstruct the keywords from the rest of the words and make low-confidence predictions without enough context. When applied to various pre-trained language models (e.g., BERT, RoBERTa, and ALBERT), we demonstrate that MASKER improves OOD detection and cross-domain generalization without degrading classification accuracy. Code is available at https://github.com/alinlab/MASKER.
TechNet: Technology Semantic Network Based on Patent Data.The growing developments in general semantic networks, knowledge graphs and ontology databases have motivated us to build a large-scale comprehensive semantic network of technology-related data for engineering knowledge discovery, technology search and retrieval, and artificial intelligence for engineering design and innovation. Specially, we constructed a technology semantic network (TechNet) that covers the elemental concepts in all domains of technology and their semantic associations by mining the complete U.S. patent database from 1976. To derive the TechNet, natural language processing techniques were utilized to extract terms from massive patent texts and recent word embedding algorithms were employed to vectorize such terms and establish their semantic relationships. We report and evaluate the TechNet for retrieving terms and their pairwise relevance that is meaningful from a technology and engineering design perspective. The TechNet may serve as an infrastructure to support a wide range of applications, e.g., technical text summaries, search query predictions, relational knowledge discovery, and design ideation support, in the context of engineering and technology, and complement or enrich existing semantic databases. To enable such applications, the TechNet is made public via an online interface and APIs for public users to retrieve technology-related terms and their relevancies.
Universal Dependencies Parsing for Colloquial Singaporean English.Singlish can be interesting to the ACL community both linguistically as a major creole based on English, and computationally for information extraction and sentiment analysis of regional social media. We investigate dependency parsing of Singlish by constructing a dependency treebank under the Universal Dependencies scheme, and then training a neural network model by integrating English syntactic knowledge into a state-of-the-art parser trained on the Singlish treebank. Results show that English knowledge can lead to 25% relative error reduction, resulting in a parser of 84.47% accuracies. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to use neural stacking to improve cross-lingual dependency parsing on low-resource languages. We make both our annotation and parser available for further research.
Left-to-Right Dependency Parsing with Pointer Networks.We propose a novel transition-based algorithm that straightforwardly parses sentences from left to right by building $n$ attachments, with $n$ being the length of the input sentence. Similarly to the recent stack-pointer parser by Ma et al. (2018), we use the pointer network framework that, given a word, can directly point to a position from the sentence. However, our left-to-right approach is simpler than the original top-down stack-pointer parser (not requiring a stack) and reduces transition sequence length in half, from 2$n$-1 actions to $n$. This results in a quadratic non-projective parser that runs twice as fast as the original while achieving the best accuracy to date on the English PTB dataset (96.04% UAS, 94.43% LAS) among fully-supervised single-model dependency parsers, and improves over the former top-down transition system in the majority of languages tested.
Replicability Analysis for Natural Language Processing: Testing   Significance with Multiple Datasets.With the ever-growing amounts of textual data from a large variety of languages, domains, and genres, it has become standard to evaluate NLP algorithms on multiple datasets in order to ensure consistent performance across heterogeneous setups. However, such multiple comparisons pose significant challenges to traditional statistical analysis methods in NLP and can lead to erroneous conclusions. In this paper, we propose a Replicability Analysis framework for a statistically sound analysis of multiple comparisons between algorithms for NLP tasks. We discuss the theoretical advantages of this framework over the current, statistically unjustified, practice in the NLP literature, and demonstrate its empirical value across four applications: multi-domain dependency parsing, multilingual POS tagging, cross-domain sentiment classification and word similarity prediction.
GraphDialog: Integrating Graph Knowledge into End-to-End Task-Oriented   Dialogue Systems.End-to-end task-oriented dialogue systems aim to generate system responses directly from plain text inputs. There are two challenges for such systems: one is how to effectively incorporate external knowledge bases (KBs) into the learning framework; the other is how to accurately capture the semantics of dialogue history. In this paper, we address these two challenges by exploiting the graph structural information in the knowledge base and in the dependency parsing tree of the dialogue. To effectively leverage the structural information in dialogue history, we propose a new recurrent cell architecture which allows representation learning on graphs. To exploit the relations between entities in KBs, the model combines multi-hop reasoning ability based on the graph structure. Experimental results show that the proposed model achieves consistent improvement over state-of-the-art models on two different task-oriented dialogue datasets.
Hybrid Oracle: Making Use of Ambiguity in Transition-based Chinese   Dependency Parsing.In the training of transition-based dependency parsers, an oracle is used to predict a transition sequence for a sentence and its gold tree. However, the transition system may exhibit ambiguity, that is, there can be multiple correct transition sequences that form the gold tree. We propose to make use of the property in the training of neural dependency parsers, and present the Hybrid Oracle. The new oracle gives all the correct transitions for a parsing state, which are used in the cross entropy loss function to provide better supervisory signal. It is also used to generate different transition sequences for a sentence to better explore the training data and improve the generalization ability of the parser. Evaluations show that the parsers trained using the hybrid oracle outperform the parsers using the traditional oracle in Chinese dependency parsing. We provide analysis from a linguistic view. The code is available at https://github.com/lancopku/nndep .
Cross-Lingual Dependency Parsing with Late Decoding for Truly   Low-Resource Languages.In cross-lingual dependency annotation projection, information is often lost during transfer because of early decoding. We present an end-to-end graph-based neural network dependency parser that can be trained to reproduce matrices of edge scores, which can be directly projected across word alignments. We show that our approach to cross-lingual dependency parsing is not only simpler, but also achieves an absolute improvement of 2.25% averaged across 10 languages compared to the previous state of the art.
A Comparison of Supervised Learning to Match Methods for Product Search.The vocabulary gap is a core challenge in information retrieval (IR). In e-commerce applications like product search, the vocabulary gap is reported to be a bigger challenge than in more traditional application areas in IR, such as news search or web search. As recent learning to match methods have made important advances in bridging the vocabulary gap for these traditional IR areas, we investigate their potential in the context of product search. In this paper we provide insights into using recent learning to match methods for product search. We compare both effectiveness and efficiency of these methods in a product search setting and analyze their performance on two product search datasets, with 50,000 queries each. One is an open dataset made available as part of a community benchmark activity at CIKM 2016. The other is a proprietary query log obtained from a European e-commerce platform. This comparison is conducted towards a better understanding of trade-offs in choosing a preferred model for this task. We find that (1) models that have been specifically designed for short text matching, like MV-LSTM and DRMMTKS, are consistently among the top three methods in all experiments; however, taking efficiency and accuracy into account at the same time, ARC-I is the preferred model for real world use cases; and (2) the performance from a state-of-the-art BERT-based model is mediocre, which we attribute to the fact that the text BERT is pre-trained on is very different from the text we have in product search. We also provide insights into factors that can influence model behavior for different types of query, such as the length of retrieved list, and query complexity, and discuss the implications of our findings for e-commerce practitioners, with respect to choosing a well performing method.
Greedy Optimized Multileaving for Personalization.Personalization plays an important role in many services. To evaluate personalized rankings, online evaluation, such as A/B testing, is widely used today. Recently, multileaving has been found to be an efficient method for evaluating rankings in information retrieval fields. This paper describes the first attempt to optimize the multileaving method for personalization settings. We clarify the challenges of applying this method to personalized rankings. Then, to solve these challenges, we propose greedy optimized multileaving (GOM) with a new credit feedback function. The empirical results showed that GOM was stable for increasing ranking lengths and the number of rankers. We implemented GOM on our actual news recommender systems, and compared its online performance. The results showed that GOM evaluated the personalized rankings precisely, with significantly smaller sample sizes (< 1/10) than A/B testing.
Question Answering as Global Reasoning over Semantic Abstractions.We propose a novel method for exploiting the semantic structure of text to answer multiple-choice questions. The approach is especially suitable for domains that require reasoning over a diverse set of linguistic constructs but have limited training data. To address these challenges, we present the first system, to the best of our knowledge, that reasons over a wide range of semantic abstractions of the text, which are derived using off-the-shelf, general-purpose, pre-trained natural language modules such as semantic role labelers, coreference resolvers, and dependency parsers. Representing multiple abstractions as a family of graphs, we translate question answering (QA) into a search for an optimal subgraph that satisfies certain global and local properties. This formulation generalizes several prior structured QA systems. Our system, SEMANTICILP, demonstrates strong performance on two domains simultaneously. In particular, on a collection of challenging science QA datasets, it outperforms various state-of-the-art approaches, including neural models, broad coverage information retrieval, and specialized techniques using structured knowledge bases, by 2%-6%.
FAQ Retrieval using Query-Question Similarity and BERT-Based   Query-Answer Relevance.Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) retrieval is an important task where the objective is to retrieve an appropriate Question-Answer (QA) pair from a database based on a user's query. We propose a FAQ retrieval system that considers the similarity between a user's query and a question as well as the relevance between the query and an answer. Although a common approach to FAQ retrieval is to construct labeled data for training, it takes annotation costs. Therefore, we use a traditional unsupervised information retrieval system to calculate the similarity between the query and question. On the other hand, the relevance between the query and answer can be learned by using QA pairs in a FAQ database. The recently-proposed BERT model is used for the relevance calculation. Since the number of QA pairs in FAQ page is not enough to train a model, we cope with this issue by leveraging FAQ sets that are similar to the one in question. We evaluate our approach on two datasets. The first one is localgovFAQ, a dataset we construct in a Japanese administrative municipality domain. The second is StackExchange dataset, which is the public dataset in English. We demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms baseline methods on these datasets.
Marvin: Semantic annotation using multiple knowledge sources.People are producing more written material then anytime in the history. The increase is so high that professionals from the various fields are no more able to cope with this amount of publications. Text mining tools can offer tools to help them and one of the tools that can aid information retrieval and information extraction is semantic text annotation. In this report we present Marvin, a text annotator written in Java, which can be used as a command line tool and as a Java library. Marvin is able to annotate text using multiple sources, including WordNet, MetaMap, DBPedia and thesauri represented as SKOS.
Automatic Instrument Recognition in Polyphonic Music Using Convolutional   Neural Networks.Traditional methods to tackle many music information retrieval tasks typically follow a two-step architecture: feature engineering followed by a simple learning algorithm. In these "shallow" architectures, feature engineering and learning are typically disjoint and unrelated. Additionally, feature engineering is difficult, and typically depends on extensive domain expertise.   In this paper, we present an application of convolutional neural networks for the task of automatic musical instrument identification. In this model, feature extraction and learning algorithms are trained together in an end-to-end fashion. We show that a convolutional neural network trained on raw audio can achieve performance surpassing traditional methods that rely on hand-crafted features.
Few-Shot Generative Conversational Query Rewriting.Conversational query rewriting aims to reformulate a concise conversational query to a fully specified, context-independent query that can be effectively handled by existing information retrieval systems. This paper presents a few-shot generative approach to conversational query rewriting. We develop two methods, based on rules and self-supervised learning, to generate weak supervision data using large amounts of ad hoc search sessions, and to fine-tune GPT-2 to rewrite conversational queries. On the TREC Conversational Assistance Track, our weakly supervised GPT-2 rewriter improves the state-of-the-art ranking accuracy by 12%, only using very limited amounts of manual query rewrites. In the zero-shot learning setting, the rewriter still gives a comparable result to previous state-of-the-art systems. Our analyses reveal that GPT-2 effectively picks up the task syntax and learns to capture context dependencies, even for hard cases that involve group references and long-turn dependencies.
Stochastic Answer Networks for Natural Language Inference.We propose a stochastic answer network (SAN) to explore multi-step inference strategies in Natural Language Inference. Rather than directly predicting the results given the inputs, the model maintains a state and iteratively refines its predictions. Our experiments show that SAN achieves the state-of-the-art results on three benchmarks: Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) dataset, MultiGenre Natural Language Inference (MultiNLI) dataset and Quora Question Pairs dataset.
Learning to Compose Task-Specific Tree Structures.For years, recursive neural networks (RvNNs) have been shown to be suitable for representing text into fixed-length vectors and achieved good performance on several natural language processing tasks. However, the main drawback of RvNNs is that they require structured input, which makes data preparation and model implementation hard. In this paper, we propose Gumbel Tree-LSTM, a novel tree-structured long short-term memory architecture that learns how to compose task-specific tree structures only from plain text data efficiently. Our model uses Straight-Through Gumbel-Softmax estimator to decide the parent node among candidates dynamically and to calculate gradients of the discrete decision. We evaluate the proposed model on natural language inference and sentiment analysis, and show that our model outperforms or is at least comparable to previous models. We also find that our model converges significantly faster than other models.
Generating Natural Adversarial Examples.Due to their complex nature, it is hard to characterize the ways in which machine learning models can misbehave or be exploited when deployed. Recent work on adversarial examples, i.e. inputs with minor perturbations that result in substantially different model predictions, is helpful in evaluating the robustness of these models by exposing the adversarial scenarios where they fail. However, these malicious perturbations are often unnatural, not semantically meaningful, and not applicable to complicated domains such as language. In this paper, we propose a framework to generate natural and legible adversarial examples that lie on the data manifold, by searching in semantic space of dense and continuous data representation, utilizing the recent advances in generative adversarial networks. We present generated adversaries to demonstrate the potential of the proposed approach for black-box classifiers for a wide range of applications such as image classification, textual entailment, and machine translation. We include experiments to show that the generated adversaries are natural, legible to humans, and useful in evaluating and analyzing black-box classifiers.
e-SNLI-VE-2.0: Corrected Visual-Textual Entailment with Natural Language   Explanations.The recently proposed SNLI-VE corpus for recognising visual-textual entailment is a large, real-world dataset for fine-grained multimodal reasoning. However, the automatic way in which SNLI-VE has been assembled (via combining parts of two related datasets) gives rise to a large number of errors in the labels of this corpus. In this paper, we first present a data collection effort to correct the class with the highest error rate in SNLI-VE. Secondly, we re-evaluate an existing model on the corrected corpus, which we call SNLI-VE-2.0, and provide a quantitative comparison with its performance on the non-corrected corpus. Thirdly, we introduce e-SNLI-VE-2.0, which appends human-written natural language explanations to SNLI-VE-2.0. Finally, we train models that learn from these explanations at training time, and output such explanations at testing time.
Make Up Your Mind! Adversarial Generation of Inconsistent Natural   Language Explanations.To increase trust in artificial intelligence systems, a promising research direction consists of designing neural models capable of generating natural language explanations for their predictions. In this work, we show that such models are nonetheless prone to generating mutually inconsistent explanations, such as "Because there is a dog in the image" and "Because there is no dog in the [same] image", exposing flaws in either the decision-making process of the model or in the generation of the explanations. We introduce a simple yet effective adversarial framework for sanity checking models against the generation of inconsistent natural language explanations. Moreover, as part of the framework, we address the problem of adversarial attacks with full target sequences, a scenario that was not previously addressed in sequence-to-sequence attacks. Finally, we apply our framework on a state-of-the-art neural natural language inference model that provides natural language explanations for its predictions. Our framework shows that this model is capable of generating a significant number of inconsistent explanations.
e-SNLI: Natural Language Inference with Natural Language Explanations.In order for machine learning to garner widespread public adoption, models must be able to provide interpretable and robust explanations for their decisions, as well as learn from human-provided explanations at train time. In this work, we extend the Stanford Natural Language Inference dataset with an additional layer of human-annotated natural language explanations of the entailment relations. We further implement models that incorporate these explanations into their training process and output them at test time. We show how our corpus of explanations, which we call e-SNLI, can be used for various goals, such as obtaining full sentence justifications of a model's decisions, improving universal sentence representations and transferring to out-of-domain NLI datasets. Our dataset thus opens up a range of research directions for using natural language explanations, both for improving models and for asserting their trust.
Learning the Difference that Makes a Difference with   Counterfactually-Augmented Data.Despite alarm over the reliance of machine learning systems on so-called spurious patterns, the term lacks coherent meaning in standard statistical frameworks. However, the language of causality offers clarity: spurious associations are due to confounding (e.g., a common cause), but not direct or indirect causal effects. In this paper, we focus on natural language processing, introducing methods and resources for training models less sensitive to spurious patterns. Given documents and their initial labels, we task humans with revising each document so that it (i) accords with a counterfactual target label; (ii) retains internal coherence; and (iii) avoids unnecessary changes. Interestingly, on sentiment analysis and natural language inference tasks, classifiers trained on original data fail on their counterfactually-revised counterparts and vice versa. Classifiers trained on combined datasets perform remarkably well, just shy of those specialized to either domain. While classifiers trained on either original or manipulated data alone are sensitive to spurious features (e.g., mentions of genre), models trained on the combined data are less sensitive to this signal. Both datasets are publicly available.
Sentence Encoders on STILTs: Supplementary Training on Intermediate   Labeled-data Tasks.Pretraining sentence encoders with language modeling and related unsupervised tasks has recently been shown to be very effective for language understanding tasks. By supplementing language model-style pretraining with further training on data-rich supervised tasks, such as natural language inference, we obtain additional performance improvements on the GLUE benchmark. Applying supplementary training on BERT (Devlin et al., 2018), we attain a GLUE score of 81.8---the state of the art (as of 02/24/2019) and a 1.4 point improvement over BERT. We also observe reduced variance across random restarts in this setting. Our approach yields similar improvements when applied to ELMo (Peters et al., 2018a) and Radford et al. (2018)'s model. In addition, the benefits of supplementary training are particularly pronounced in data-constrained regimes, as we show in experiments with artificially limited training data.
Lessons from Natural Language Inference in the Clinical Domain.State of the art models using deep neural networks have become very good in learning an accurate mapping from inputs to outputs. However, they still lack generalization capabilities in conditions that differ from the ones encountered during training. This is even more challenging in specialized, and knowledge intensive domains, where training data is limited. To address this gap, we introduce MedNLI - a dataset annotated by doctors, performing a natural language inference task (NLI), grounded in the medical history of patients. We present strategies to: 1) leverage transfer learning using datasets from the open domain, (e.g. SNLI) and 2) incorporate domain knowledge from external data and lexical sources (e.g. medical terminologies). Our results demonstrate performance gains using both strategies.
End-to-end Named Entity Recognition and Relation Extraction using   Pre-trained Language Models.Named entity recognition (NER) and relation extraction (RE) are two important tasks in information extraction and retrieval (IE \& IR). Recent work has demonstrated that it is beneficial to learn these tasks jointly, which avoids the propagation of error inherent in pipeline-based systems and improves performance. However, state-of-the-art joint models typically rely on external natural language processing (NLP) tools, such as dependency parsers, limiting their usefulness to domains (e.g. news) where those tools perform well. The few neural, end-to-end models that have been proposed are trained almost completely from scratch. In this paper, we propose a neural, end-to-end model for jointly extracting entities and their relations which does not rely on external NLP tools and which integrates a large, pre-trained language model. Because the bulk of our model's parameters are pre-trained and we eschew recurrence for self-attention, our model is fast to train. On 5 datasets across 3 domains, our model matches or exceeds state-of-the-art performance, sometimes by a large margin.
Two are Better than One: Joint Entity and Relation Extraction with   Table-Sequence Encoders.Named entity recognition and relation extraction are two important fundamental problems. Joint learning algorithms have been proposed to solve both tasks simultaneously, and many of them cast the joint task as a table-filling problem. However, they typically focused on learning a single encoder (usually learning representation in the form of a table) to capture information required for both tasks within the same space. We argue that it can be beneficial to design two distinct encoders to capture such two different types of information in the learning process. In this work, we propose the novel {\em table-sequence encoders} where two different encoders -- a table encoder and a sequence encoder are designed to help each other in the representation learning process. Our experiments confirm the advantages of having {\em two} encoders over {\em one} encoder. On several standard datasets, our model shows significant improvements over existing approaches.
Multilingual Relation Extraction using Compositional Universal Schema.Universal schema builds a knowledge base (KB) of entities and relations by jointly embedding all relation types from input KBs as well as textual patterns expressing relations from raw text. In most previous applications of universal schema, each textual pattern is represented as a single embedding, preventing generalization to unseen patterns. Recent work employs a neural network to capture patterns' compositional semantics, providing generalization to all possible input text. In response, this paper introduces significant further improvements to the coverage and flexibility of universal schema relation extraction: predictions for entities unseen in training and multilingual transfer learning to domains with no annotation. We evaluate our model through extensive experiments on the English and Spanish TAC KBP benchmark, outperforming the top system from TAC 2013 slot-filling using no handwritten patterns or additional annotation. We also consider a multilingual setting in which English training data entities overlap with the seed KB, but Spanish text does not. Despite having no annotation for Spanish data, we train an accurate predictor, with additional improvements obtained by tying word embeddings across languages. Furthermore, we find that multilingual training improves English relation extraction accuracy. Our approach is thus suited to broad-coverage automated knowledge base construction in a variety of languages and domains.
Sentence Embedding Alignment for Lifelong Relation Extraction.Conventional approaches to relation extraction usually require a fixed set of pre-defined relations. Such requirement is hard to meet in many real applications, especially when new data and relations are emerging incessantly and it is computationally expensive to store all data and re-train the whole model every time new data and relations come in. We formulate such a challenging problem as lifelong relation extraction and investigate memory-efficient incremental learning methods without catastrophically forgetting knowledge learned from previous tasks. We first investigate a modified version of the stochastic gradient methods with a replay memory, which surprisingly outperforms recent state-of-the-art lifelong learning methods. We further propose to improve this approach to alleviate the forgetting problem by anchoring the sentence embedding space. Specifically, we utilize an explicit alignment model to mitigate the sentence embedding distortion of the learned model when training on new data and new relations. Experiment results on multiple benchmarks show that our proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art lifelong learning approaches.
Incorporating Relation Paths in Neural Relation Extraction.Distantly supervised relation extraction has been widely used to find novel relational facts from plain text. To predict the relation between a pair of two target entities, existing methods solely rely on those direct sentences containing both entities. In fact, there are also many sentences containing only one of the target entities, which provide rich and useful information for relation extraction. To address this issue, we build inference chains between two target entities via intermediate entities, and propose a path-based neural relation extraction model to encode the relational semantics from both direct sentences and inference chains. Experimental results on real-world datasets show that, our model can make full use of those sentences containing only one target entity, and achieves significant and consistent improvements on relation extraction as compared with baselines. The source code of this paper can be obtained from https: //github.com/thunlp/PathNRE.
Improved Relation Extraction with Feature-Rich Compositional Embedding   Models.Compositional embedding models build a representation (or embedding) for a linguistic structure based on its component word embeddings. We propose a Feature-rich Compositional Embedding Model (FCM) for relation extraction that is expressive, generalizes to new domains, and is easy-to-implement. The key idea is to combine both (unlexicalized) hand-crafted features with learned word embeddings. The model is able to directly tackle the difficulties met by traditional compositional embeddings models, such as handling arbitrary types of sentence annotations and utilizing global information for composition. We test the proposed model on two relation extraction tasks, and demonstrate that our model outperforms both previous compositional models and traditional feature rich models on the ACE 2005 relation extraction task, and the SemEval 2010 relation classification task. The combination of our model and a log-linear classifier with hand-crafted features gives state-of-the-art results.
Tackling Graphical NLP problems with Graph Recurrent Networks.How to properly model graphs is a long-existing and important problem in NLP area, where several popular types of graphs are knowledge graphs, semantic graphs and dependency graphs. Comparing with other data structures, such as sequences and trees, graphs are generally more powerful in representing complex correlations among entities. For example, a knowledge graph stores real-word entities (such as "Barack_Obama" and "U.S.") and their relations (such as "live_in" and "lead_by"). Properly encoding a knowledge graph is beneficial to user applications, such as question answering and knowledge discovery. Modeling graphs is also very challenging, probably because graphs usually contain massive and cyclic relations.   Recent years have witnessed the success of deep learning, especially RNN-based models, on many NLP problems. Besides, RNNs and their variations have been extensively studied on several graph problems and showed preliminary successes. Despite the successes that have been achieved, RNN-based models suffer from several major drawbacks on graphs. First, they can only consume sequential data, thus linearization is required to serialize input graphs, resulting in the loss of important structural information. Second, the serialization results are usually very long, so it takes a long time for RNNs to encode them.   In this thesis, we propose a novel graph neural network, named graph recurrent network (GRN). We study our GRN model on 4 very different tasks, such as machine reading comprehension, relation extraction and machine translation. Some take undirected graphs without edge labels, while the others have directed ones with edge labels. To consider these important differences, we gradually enhance our GRN model, such as further considering edge labels and adding an RNN decoder. Carefully designed experiments show the effectiveness of GRN on all these tasks.
A Unified MRC Framework for Named Entity Recognition.The task of named entity recognition (NER) is normally divided into nested NER and flat NER depending on whether named entities are nested or not. Models are usually separately developed for the two tasks, since sequence labeling models, the most widely used backbone for flat NER, are only able to assign a single label to a particular token, which is unsuitable for nested NER where a token may be assigned several labels.   In this paper, we propose a unified framework that is capable of handling both flat and nested NER tasks. Instead of treating the task of NER as a sequence labeling problem, we propose to formulate it as a machine reading comprehension (MRC) task. For example, extracting entities with the \textsc{per} label is formalized as extracting answer spans to the question "{\it which person is mentioned in the text?}". This formulation naturally tackles the entity overlapping issue in nested NER: the extraction of two overlapping entities for different categories requires answering two independent questions. Additionally, since the query encodes informative prior knowledge, this strategy facilitates the process of entity extraction, leading to better performances for not only nested NER, but flat NER.   We conduct experiments on both {\em nested} and {\em flat} NER datasets. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed formulation. We are able to achieve vast amount of performance boost over current SOTA models on nested NER datasets, i.e., +1.28, +2.55, +5.44, +6.37, respectively on ACE04, ACE05, GENIA and KBP17, along with SOTA results on flat NER datasets, i.e.,+0.24, +1.95, +0.21, +1.49 respectively on English CoNLL 2003, English OntoNotes 5.0, Chinese MSRA, Chinese OntoNotes 4.0.
Phrase-Indexed Question Answering: A New Challenge for Scalable Document   Comprehension.We formalize a new modular variant of current question answering tasks by enforcing complete independence of the document encoder from the question encoder. This formulation addresses a key challenge in machine comprehension by requiring a standalone representation of the document discourse. It additionally leads to a significant scalability advantage since the encoding of the answer candidate phrases in the document can be pre-computed and indexed offline for efficient retrieval. We experiment with baseline models for the new task, which achieve a reasonable accuracy but significantly underperform unconstrained QA models. We invite the QA research community to engage in Phrase-Indexed Question Answering (PIQA, pika) for closing the gap. The leaderboard is at: nlp.cs.washington.edu/piqa
ChID: A Large-scale Chinese IDiom Dataset for Cloze Test.Cloze-style reading comprehension in Chinese is still limited due to the lack of various corpora. In this paper we propose a large-scale Chinese cloze test dataset ChID, which studies the comprehension of idiom, a unique language phenomenon in Chinese. In this corpus, the idioms in a passage are replaced by blank symbols and the correct answer needs to be chosen from well-designed candidate idioms. We carefully study how the design of candidate idioms and the representation of idioms affect the performance of state-of-the-art models. Results show that the machine accuracy is substantially worse than that of human, indicating a large space for further research.
Dataset for the First Evaluation on Chinese Machine Reading   Comprehension.Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) has become enormously popular recently and has attracted a lot of attention. However, existing reading comprehension datasets are mostly in English. To add diversity in reading comprehension datasets, in this paper we propose a new Chinese reading comprehension dataset for accelerating related research in the community. The proposed dataset contains two different types: cloze-style reading comprehension and user query reading comprehension, associated with large-scale training data as well as human-annotated validation and hidden test set. Along with this dataset, we also hosted the first Evaluation on Chinese Machine Reading Comprehension (CMRC-2017) and successfully attracted tens of participants, which suggest the potential impact of this dataset.
Evidence Aggregation for Answer Re-Ranking in Open-Domain Question   Answering.A popular recent approach to answering open-domain questions is to first search for question-related passages and then apply reading comprehension models to extract answers. Existing methods usually extract answers from single passages independently. But some questions require a combination of evidence from across different sources to answer correctly. In this paper, we propose two models which make use of multiple passages to generate their answers. Both use an answer-reranking approach which reorders the answer candidates generated by an existing state-of-the-art QA model. We propose two methods, namely, strength-based re-ranking and coverage-based re-ranking, to make use of the aggregated evidence from different passages to better determine the answer. Our models have achieved state-of-the-art results on three public open-domain QA datasets: Quasar-T, SearchQA and the open-domain version of TriviaQA, with about 8 percentage points of improvement over the former two datasets.
R$^3$: Reinforced Reader-Ranker for Open-Domain Question Answering.In recent years researchers have achieved considerable success applying neural network methods to question answering (QA). These approaches have achieved state of the art results in simplified closed-domain settings such as the SQuAD (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) dataset, which provides a pre-selected passage, from which the answer to a given question may be extracted. More recently, researchers have begun to tackle open-domain QA, in which the model is given a question and access to a large corpus (e.g., wikipedia) instead of a pre-selected passage (Chen et al., 2017a). This setting is more complex as it requires large-scale search for relevant passages by an information retrieval component, combined with a reading comprehension model that "reads" the passages to generate an answer to the question. Performance in this setting lags considerably behind closed-domain performance. In this paper, we present a novel open-domain QA system called Reinforced Ranker-Reader $(R^3)$, based on two algorithmic innovations. First, we propose a new pipeline for open-domain QA with a Ranker component, which learns to rank retrieved passages in terms of likelihood of generating the ground-truth answer to a given question. Second, we propose a novel method that jointly trains the Ranker along with an answer-generation Reader model, based on reinforcement learning. We report extensive experimental results showing that our method significantly improves on the state of the art for multiple open-domain QA datasets.
A Question-Focused Multi-Factor Attention Network for Question Answering.Neural network models recently proposed for question answering (QA) primarily focus on capturing the passage-question relation. However, they have minimal capability to link relevant facts distributed across multiple sentences which is crucial in achieving deeper understanding, such as performing multi-sentence reasoning, co-reference resolution, etc. They also do not explicitly focus on the question and answer type which often plays a critical role in QA. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end question-focused multi-factor attention network for answer extraction. Multi-factor attentive encoding using tensor-based transformation aggregates meaningful facts even when they are located in multiple sentences. To implicitly infer the answer type, we also propose a max-attentional question aggregation mechanism to encode a question vector based on the important words in a question. During prediction, we incorporate sequence-level encoding of the first wh-word and its immediately following word as an additional source of question type information. Our proposed model achieves significant improvements over the best prior state-of-the-art results on three large-scale challenging QA datasets, namely NewsQA, TriviaQA, and SearchQA.
Extractive Summarization using Deep Learning.This paper proposes a text summarization approach for factual reports using a deep learning model. This approach consists of three phases: feature extraction, feature enhancement, and summary generation, which work together to assimilate core information and generate a coherent, understandable summary. We are exploring various features to improve the set of sentences selected for the summary, and are using a Restricted Boltzmann Machine to enhance and abstract those features to improve resultant accuracy without losing any important information. The sentences are scored based on those enhanced features and an extractive summary is constructed. Experimentation carried out on several articles demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Source code available at: https://github.com/vagisha-nidhi/TextSummarizer
Read, Highlight and Summarize: A Hierarchical Neural Semantic   Encoder-based Approach.Traditional sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models and other variations of the attention-mechanism such as hierarchical attention have been applied to the text summarization problem. Though there is a hierarchy in the way humans use language by forming paragraphs from sentences and sentences from words, hierarchical models have usually not worked that much better than their traditional seq2seq counterparts. This effect is mainly because either the hierarchical attention mechanisms are too sparse using hard attention or noisy using soft attention. In this paper, we propose a method based on extracting the highlights of a document; a key concept that is conveyed in a few sentences. In a typical text summarization dataset consisting of documents that are 800 tokens in length (average), capturing long-term dependencies is very important, e.g., the last sentence can be grouped with the first sentence of a document to form a summary. LSTMs (Long Short-Term Memory) proved useful for machine translation. However, they often fail to capture long-term dependencies while modeling long sequences. To address these issues, we have adapted Neural Semantic Encoders (NSE) to text summarization, a class of memory-augmented neural networks by improving its functionalities and proposed a novel hierarchical NSE that outperforms similar previous models significantly. The quality of summarization was improved by augmenting linguistic factors, namely lemma, and Part-of-Speech (PoS) tags, to each word in the dataset for improved vocabulary coverage and generalization. The hierarchical NSE model on factored dataset outperformed the state-of-the-art by nearly 4 ROUGE points. We further designed and used the first GPU-based self-critical Reinforcement Learning model.
Plain English Summarization of Contracts.Unilateral contracts, such as terms of service, play a substantial role in modern digital life. However, few users read these documents before accepting the terms within, as they are too long and the language too complicated. We propose the task of summarizing such legal documents in plain English, which would enable users to have a better understanding of the terms they are accepting.   We propose an initial dataset of legal text snippets paired with summaries written in plain English. We verify the quality of these summaries manually and show that they involve heavy abstraction, compression, and simplification. Initial experiments show that unsupervised extractive summarization methods do not perform well on this task due to the level of abstraction and style differences. We conclude with a call for resource and technique development for simplification and style transfer for legal language.
Ouroboros: On Accelerating Training of Transformer-Based Language Models.Language models are essential for natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as machine translation and text summarization. Remarkable performance has been demonstrated recently across many NLP domains via a Transformer-based language model with over a billion parameters, verifying the benefits of model size. Model parallelism is required if a model is too large to fit in a single computing device. Current methods for model parallelism either suffer from backward locking in backpropagation or are not applicable to language models. We propose the first model-parallel algorithm that speeds the training of Transformer-based language models. We also prove that our proposed algorithm is guaranteed to converge to critical points for non-convex problems. Extensive experiments on Transformer and Transformer-XL language models demonstrate that the proposed algorithm obtains a much faster speedup beyond data parallelism, with comparable or better accuracy. Code to reproduce experiments is to be found at \url{https://github.com/LaraQianYang/Ouroboros}.
CDEvalSumm: An Empirical Study of Cross-Dataset Evaluation for Neural   Summarization Systems.Neural network-based models augmented with unsupervised pre-trained knowledge have achieved impressive performance on text summarization. However, most existing evaluation methods are limited to an in-domain setting, where summarizers are trained and evaluated on the same dataset. We argue that this approach can narrow our understanding of the generalization ability for different summarization systems. In this paper, we perform an in-depth analysis of characteristics of different datasets and investigate the performance of different summarization models under a cross-dataset setting, in which a summarizer trained on one corpus will be evaluated on a range of out-of-domain corpora. A comprehensive study of 11 representative summarization systems on 5 datasets from different domains reveals the effect of model architectures and generation ways (i.e. abstractive and extractive) on model generalization ability. Further, experimental results shed light on the limitations of existing summarizers. Brief introduction and supplementary code can be found in https://github.com/zide05/CDEvalSumm.
Liputan6: A Large-scale Indonesian Dataset for Text Summarization.In this paper, we introduce a large-scale Indonesian summarization dataset. We harvest articles from Liputan6.com, an online news portal, and obtain 215,827 document-summary pairs. We leverage pre-trained language models to develop benchmark extractive and abstractive summarization methods over the dataset with multilingual and monolingual BERT-based models. We include a thorough error analysis by examining machine-generated summaries that have low ROUGE scores, and expose both issues with ROUGE it-self, as well as with extractive and abstractive summarization models.
Graph Convolutional Networks for Named Entity Recognition.In this paper we investigate the role of the dependency tree in a named entity recognizer upon using a set of GCN. We perform a comparison among different NER architectures and show that the grammar of a sentence positively influences the results. Experiments on the ontonotes dataset demonstrate consistent performance improvements, without requiring heavy feature engineering nor additional language-specific knowledge.
Harnessing Deep Neural Networks with Logic Rules.Combining deep neural networks with structured logic rules is desirable to harness flexibility and reduce uninterpretability of the neural models. We propose a general framework capable of enhancing various types of neural networks (e.g., CNNs and RNNs) with declarative first-order logic rules. Specifically, we develop an iterative distillation method that transfers the structured information of logic rules into the weights of neural networks. We deploy the framework on a CNN for sentiment analysis, and an RNN for named entity recognition. With a few highly intuitive rules, we obtain substantial improvements and achieve state-of-the-art or comparable results to previous best-performing systems.
Distantly Supervised Named Entity Recognition using Positive-Unlabeled   Learning.In this work, we explore the way to perform named entity recognition (NER) using only unlabeled data and named entity dictionaries. To this end, we formulate the task as a positive-unlabeled (PU) learning problem and accordingly propose a novel PU learning algorithm to perform the task. We prove that the proposed algorithm can unbiasedly and consistently estimate the task loss as if there is fully labeled data. A key feature of the proposed method is that it does not require the dictionaries to label every entity within a sentence, and it even does not require the dictionaries to label all of the words constituting an entity. This greatly reduces the requirement on the quality of the dictionaries and makes our method generalize well with quite simple dictionaries. Empirical studies on four public NER datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. We have published the source code at \url{https://github.com/v-mipeng/LexiconNER}.
Playing with Words at the National Library of Sweden -- Making a Swedish   BERT.This paper introduces the Swedish BERT ("KB-BERT") developed by the KBLab for data-driven research at the National Library of Sweden (KB). Building on recent efforts to create transformer-based BERT models for languages other than English, we explain how we used KB's collections to create and train a new language-specific BERT model for Swedish. We also present the results of our model in comparison with existing models - chiefly that produced by the Swedish Public Employment Service, Arbetsf\"ormedlingen, and Google's multilingual M-BERT - where we demonstrate that KB-BERT outperforms these in a range of NLP tasks from named entity recognition (NER) to part-of-speech tagging (POS). Our discussion highlights the difficulties that continue to exist given the lack of training data and testbeds for smaller languages like Swedish. We release our model for further exploration and research here: https://github.com/Kungbib/swedish-bert-models .
Convolutional Image Captioning.Image captioning is an important but challenging task, applicable to virtual assistants, editing tools, image indexing, and support of the disabled. Its challenges are due to the variability and ambiguity of possible image descriptions. In recent years significant progress has been made in image captioning, using Recurrent Neural Networks powered by long-short-term-memory (LSTM) units. Despite mitigating the vanishing gradient problem, and despite their compelling ability to memorize dependencies, LSTM units are complex and inherently sequential across time. To address this issue, recent work has shown benefits of convolutional networks for machine translation and conditional image generation. Inspired by their success, in this paper, we develop a convolutional image captioning technique. We demonstrate its efficacy on the challenging MSCOCO dataset and demonstrate performance on par with the baseline, while having a faster training time per number of parameters. We also perform a detailed analysis, providing compelling reasons in favor of convolutional language generation approaches.
Rigid Formats Controlled Text Generation.Neural text generation has made tremendous progress in various tasks. One common characteristic of most of the tasks is that the texts are not restricted to some rigid formats when generating. However, we may confront some special text paradigms such as Lyrics (assume the music score is given), Sonnet, SongCi (classical Chinese poetry of the Song dynasty), etc. The typical characteristics of these texts are in three folds: (1) They must comply fully with the rigid predefined formats. (2) They must obey some rhyming schemes. (3) Although they are restricted to some formats, the sentence integrity must be guaranteed. To the best of our knowledge, text generation based on the predefined rigid formats has not been well investigated. Therefore, we propose a simple and elegant framework named SongNet to tackle this problem. The backbone of the framework is a Transformer-based auto-regressive language model. Sets of symbols are tailor-designed to improve the modeling performance especially on format, rhyme, and sentence integrity. We improve the attention mechanism to impel the model to capture some future information on the format. A pre-training and fine-tuning framework is designed to further improve the generation quality. Extensive experiments conducted on two collected corpora demonstrate that our proposed framework generates significantly better results in terms of both automatic metrics and the human evaluation.
A Graph-to-Sequence Model for AMR-to-Text Generation.The problem of AMR-to-text generation is to recover a text representing the same meaning as an input AMR graph. The current state-of-the-art method uses a sequence-to-sequence model, leveraging LSTM for encoding a linearized AMR structure. Although being able to model non-local semantic information, a sequence LSTM can lose information from the AMR graph structure, and thus faces challenges with large graphs, which result in long sequences. We introduce a neural graph-to-sequence model, using a novel LSTM structure for directly encoding graph-level semantics. On a standard benchmark, our model shows superior results to existing methods in the literature.
Graph Transformer for Graph-to-Sequence Learning.The dominant graph-to-sequence transduction models employ graph neural networks for graph representation learning, where the structural information is reflected by the receptive field of neurons. Unlike graph neural networks that restrict the information exchange between immediate neighborhood, we propose a new model, known as Graph Transformer, that uses explicit relation encoding and allows direct communication between two distant nodes. It provides a more efficient way for global graph structure modeling. Experiments on the applications of text generation from Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) and syntax-based neural machine translation show the superiority of our proposed model. Specifically, our model achieves 27.4 BLEU on LDC2015E86 and 29.7 BLEU on LDC2017T10 for AMR-to-text generation, outperforming the state-of-the-art results by up to 2.2 points. On the syntax-based translation tasks, our model establishes new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU scores, 21.3 for English-to-German and 14.1 for English-to-Czech, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 1 BLEU.
CGMH: Constrained Sentence Generation by Metropolis-Hastings Sampling.In real-world applications of natural language generation, there are often constraints on the target sentences in addition to fluency and naturalness requirements. Existing language generation techniques are usually based on recurrent neural networks (RNNs). However, it is non-trivial to impose constraints on RNNs while maintaining generation quality, since RNNs generate sentences sequentially (or with beam search) from the first word to the last. In this paper, we propose CGMH, a novel approach using Metropolis-Hastings sampling for constrained sentence generation. CGMH allows complicated constraints such as the occurrence of multiple keywords in the target sentences, which cannot be handled in traditional RNN-based approaches. Moreover, CGMH works in the inference stage, and does not require parallel corpora for training. We evaluate our method on a variety of tasks, including keywords-to-sentence generation, unsupervised sentence paraphrasing, and unsupervised sentence error correction. CGMH achieves high performance compared with previous supervised methods for sentence generation. Our code is released at https://github.com/NingMiao/CGMH
Data-to-Text Generation with Content Selection and Planning.Recent advances in data-to-text generation have led to the use of large-scale datasets and neural network models which are trained end-to-end, without explicitly modeling what to say and in what order. In this work, we present a neural network architecture which incorporates content selection and planning without sacrificing end-to-end training. We decompose the generation task into two stages. Given a corpus of data records (paired with descriptive documents), we first generate a content plan highlighting which information should be mentioned and in which order and then generate the document while taking the content plan into account. Automatic and human-based evaluation experiments show that our model outperforms strong baselines improving the state-of-the-art on the recently released RotoWire dataset.
Reinforcement Learning with Augmented Data.Learning from visual observations is a fundamental yet challenging problem in Reinforcement Learning (RL). Although algorithmic advances combined with convolutional neural networks have proved to be a recipe for success, current methods are still lacking on two fronts: (a) data-efficiency of learning and (b) generalization to new environments. To this end, we present Reinforcement Learning with Augmented Data (RAD), a simple plug-and-play module that can enhance most RL algorithms. We perform the first extensive study of general data augmentations for RL on both pixel-based and state-based inputs, and introduce two new data augmentations - random translate and random amplitude scale. We show that augmentations such as random translate, crop, color jitter, patch cutout, random convolutions, and amplitude scale can enable simple RL algorithms to outperform complex state-of-the-art methods across common benchmarks. RAD sets a new state-of-the-art in terms of data-efficiency and final performance on the DeepMind Control Suite benchmark for pixel-based control as well as OpenAI Gym benchmark for state-based control. We further demonstrate that RAD significantly improves test-time generalization over existing methods on several OpenAI ProcGen benchmarks. Our RAD module and training code are available at https://www.github.com/MishaLaskin/rad.
Harmonic Networks: Deep Translation and Rotation Equivariance.Translating or rotating an input image should not affect the results of many computer vision tasks. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are already translation equivariant: input image translations produce proportionate feature map translations. This is not the case for rotations. Global rotation equivariance is typically sought through data augmentation, but patch-wise equivariance is more difficult. We present Harmonic Networks or H-Nets, a CNN exhibiting equivariance to patch-wise translation and 360-rotation. We achieve this by replacing regular CNN filters with circular harmonics, returning a maximal response and orientation for every receptive field patch.   H-Nets use a rich, parameter-efficient and low computational complexity representation, and we show that deep feature maps within the network encode complicated rotational invariants. We demonstrate that our layers are general enough to be used in conjunction with the latest architectures and techniques, such as deep supervision and batch normalization. We also achieve state-of-the-art classification on rotated-MNIST, and competitive results on other benchmark challenges.
Invariant backpropagation: how to train a transformation-invariant   neural network.In many classification problems a classifier should be robust to small variations in the input vector. This is a desired property not only for particular transformations, such as translation and rotation in image classification problems, but also for all others for which the change is small enough to retain the object perceptually indistinguishable. We propose two extensions of the backpropagation algorithm that train a neural network to be robust to variations in the feature vector. While the first of them enforces robustness of the loss function to all variations, the second method trains the predictions to be robust to a particular variation which changes the loss function the most. The second methods demonstrates better results, but is slightly slower. We analytically compare the proposed algorithm with two the most similar approaches (Tangent BP and Adversarial Training), and propose their fast versions. In the experimental part we perform comparison of all algorithms in terms of classification accuracy and robustness to noise on MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. Additionally we analyze how the performance of the proposed algorithm depends on the dataset size and data augmentation.
TinaFace: Strong but Simple Baseline for Face Detection.Face detection has received intensive attention in recent years. Many works present lots of special methods for face detection from different perspectives like model architecture, data augmentation, label assignment and etc., which make the overall algorithm and system become more and more complex. In this paper, we point out that \textbf{there is no gap between face detection and generic object detection}. Then we provide a strong but simple baseline method to deal with face detection named TinaFace. We use ResNet-50 \cite{he2016deep} as backbone, and all modules and techniques in TinaFace are constructed on existing modules, easily implemented and based on generic object detection. On the hard test set of the most popular and challenging face detection benchmark WIDER FACE \cite{yang2016wider}, with single-model and single-scale, our TinaFace achieves 92.1\% average precision (AP), which exceeds most of the recent face detectors with larger backbone. And after using test time augmentation (TTA), our TinaFace outperforms the current state-of-the-art method and achieves 92.4\% AP. The code will be available at \url{https://github.com/Media-Smart/vedadet}.
Learning SO(3) Equivariant Representations with Spherical CNNs.We address the problem of 3D rotation equivariance in convolutional neural networks. 3D rotations have been a challenging nuisance in 3D classification tasks requiring higher capacity and extended data augmentation in order to tackle it. We model 3D data with multi-valued spherical functions and we propose a novel spherical convolutional network that implements exact convolutions on the sphere by realizing them in the spherical harmonic domain. Resulting filters have local symmetry and are localized by enforcing smooth spectra. We apply a novel pooling on the spectral domain and our operations are independent of the underlying spherical resolution throughout the network. We show that networks with much lower capacity and without requiring data augmentation can exhibit performance comparable to the state of the art in standard retrieval and classification benchmarks.
emoji2vec: Learning Emoji Representations from their Description.Many current natural language processing applications for social media rely on representation learning and utilize pre-trained word embeddings. There currently exist several publicly-available, pre-trained sets of word embeddings, but they contain few or no emoji representations even as emoji usage in social media has increased. In this paper we release emoji2vec, pre-trained embeddings for all Unicode emoji which are learned from their description in the Unicode emoji standard. The resulting emoji embeddings can be readily used in downstream social natural language processing applications alongside word2vec. We demonstrate, for the downstream task of sentiment analysis, that emoji embeddings learned from short descriptions outperforms a skip-gram model trained on a large collection of tweets, while avoiding the need for contexts in which emoji need to appear frequently in order to estimate a representation.
Efficient Vector Representation for Documents through Corruption.We present an efficient document representation learning framework, Document Vector through Corruption (Doc2VecC). Doc2VecC represents each document as a simple average of word embeddings. It ensures a representation generated as such captures the semantic meanings of the document during learning. A corruption model is included, which introduces a data-dependent regularization that favors informative or rare words while forcing the embeddings of common and non-discriminative ones to be close to zero. Doc2VecC produces significantly better word embeddings than Word2Vec. We compare Doc2VecC with several state-of-the-art document representation learning algorithms. The simple model architecture introduced by Doc2VecC matches or out-performs the state-of-the-art in generating high-quality document representations for sentiment analysis, document classification as well as semantic relatedness tasks. The simplicity of the model enables training on billions of words per hour on a single machine. At the same time, the model is very efficient in generating representations of unseen documents at test time.
Deep Learning Based Text Classification: A Comprehensive Review.Deep learning based models have surpassed classical machine learning based approaches in various text classification tasks, including sentiment analysis, news categorization, question answering, and natural language inference. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of more than 150 deep learning based models for text classification developed in recent years, and discuss their technical contributions, similarities, and strengths. We also provide a summary of more than 40 popular datasets widely used for text classification. Finally, we provide a quantitative analysis of the performance of different deep learning models on popular benchmarks, and discuss future research directions.
Deep Learning for Hate Speech Detection in Tweets.Hate speech detection on Twitter is critical for applications like controversial event extraction, building AI chatterbots, content recommendation, and sentiment analysis. We define this task as being able to classify a tweet as racist, sexist or neither. The complexity of the natural language constructs makes this task very challenging. We perform extensive experiments with multiple deep learning architectures to learn semantic word embeddings to handle this complexity. Our experiments on a benchmark dataset of 16K annotated tweets show that such deep learning methods outperform state-of-the-art char/word n-gram methods by ~18 F1 points.
Exploiting BERT for End-to-End Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis.In this paper, we investigate the modeling power of contextualized embeddings from pre-trained language models, e.g. BERT, on the E2E-ABSA task. Specifically, we build a series of simple yet insightful neural baselines to deal with E2E-ABSA. The experimental results show that even with a simple linear classification layer, our BERT-based architecture can outperform state-of-the-art works. Besides, we also standardize the comparative study by consistently utilizing a hold-out validation dataset for model selection, which is largely ignored by previous works. Therefore, our work can serve as a BERT-based benchmark for E2E-ABSA.
Statistical Model Aggregation via Parameter Matching.We consider the problem of aggregating models learned from sequestered, possibly heterogeneous datasets. Exploiting tools from Bayesian nonparametrics, we develop a general meta-modeling framework that learns shared global latent structures by identifying correspondences among local model parameterizations. Our proposed framework is model-independent and is applicable to a wide range of model types. After verifying our approach on simulated data, we demonstrate its utility in aggregating Gaussian topic models, hierarchical Dirichlet process based hidden Markov models, and sparse Gaussian processes with applications spanning text summarization, motion capture analysis, and temperature forecasting.
A new evaluation framework for topic modeling algorithms based on   synthetic corpora.Topic models are in widespread use in natural language processing and beyond. Here, we propose a new framework for the evaluation of probabilistic topic modeling algorithms based on synthetic corpora containing an unambiguously defined ground truth topic structure. The major innovation of our approach is the ability to quantify the agreement between the planted and inferred topic structures by comparing the assigned topic labels at the level of the tokens. In experiments, our approach yields novel insights about the relative strengths of topic models as corpus characteristics vary, and the first evidence of an "undetectable phase" for topic models when the planted structure is weak. We also establish the practical relevance of the insights gained for synthetic corpora by predicting the performance of topic modeling algorithms in classification tasks in real-world corpora.
Unsupervised Terminological Ontology Learning based on Hierarchical   Topic Modeling.In this paper, we present hierarchical relationbased latent Dirichlet allocation (hrLDA), a data-driven hierarchical topic model for extracting terminological ontologies from a large number of heterogeneous documents. In contrast to traditional topic models, hrLDA relies on noun phrases instead of unigrams, considers syntax and document structures, and enriches topic hierarchies with topic relations. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate the superiority of hrLDA over existing topic models, especially for building hierarchies. Furthermore, we illustrate the robustness of hrLDA in the settings of noisy data sets, which are likely to occur in many practical scenarios. Our ontology evaluation results show that ontologies extracted from hrLDA are very competitive with the ontologies created by domain experts.
A Neural Generative Model for Joint Learning Topics and Topic-Specific   Word Embeddings.We propose a novel generative model to explore both local and global context for joint learning topics and topic-specific word embeddings. In particular, we assume that global latent topics are shared across documents, a word is generated by a hidden semantic vector encoding its contextual semantic meaning, and its context words are generated conditional on both the hidden semantic vector and global latent topics. Topics are trained jointly with the word embeddings. The trained model maps words to topic-dependent embeddings, which naturally addresses the issue of word polysemy. Experimental results show that the proposed model outperforms the word-level embedding methods in both word similarity evaluation and word sense disambiguation. Furthermore, the model also extracts more coherent topics compared with existing neural topic models or other models for joint learning of topics and word embeddings. Finally, the model can be easily integrated with existing deep contextualized word embedding learning methods to further improve the performance of downstream tasks such as sentiment classification.
Analyses of Multi-collection Corpora via Compound Topic Modeling.As electronically stored data grow in daily life, obtaining novel and relevant information becomes challenging in text mining. Thus people have sought statistical methods based on term frequency, matrix algebra, or topic modeling for text mining. Popular topic models have centered on one single text collection, which is deficient for comparative text analyses. We consider a setting where one can partition the corpus into subcollections. Each subcollection shares a common set of topics, but there exists relative variation in topic proportions among collections. Including any prior knowledge about the corpus (e.g. organization structure), we propose the compound latent Dirichlet allocation (cLDA) model, improving on previous work, encouraging generalizability, and depending less on user-input parameters. To identify the parameters of interest in cLDA, we study Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) and variational inference approaches extensively, and suggest an efficient MCMC method. We evaluate cLDA qualitatively and quantitatively using both synthetic and real-world corpora. The usability study on some real-world corpora illustrates the superiority of cLDA to explore the underlying topics automatically but also model their connections and variations across multiple collections.
Nested Variational Autoencoder for Topic Modeling on Microtexts with   Word Vectors.Most of the information on the Internet is represented in the form of microtexts, which are short text snippets such as news headlines or tweets. These sources of information are abundant, and mining these data could uncover meaningful insights. Topic modeling is one of the popular methods to extract knowledge from a collection of documents; however, conventional topic models such as latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) are unable to perform well on short documents, mostly due to the scarcity of word co-occurrence statistics embedded in the data. The objective of our research is to create a topic model that can achieve great performances on microtexts while requiring a small runtime for scalability to large datasets. To solve the lack of information of microtexts, we allow our method to take advantage of word embeddings for additional knowledge of relationships between words. For speed and scalability, we apply autoencoding variational Bayes, an algorithm that can perform efficient black-box inference in probabilistic models. The result of our work is a novel topic model called the nested variational autoencoder, which is a distribution that takes into account word vectors and is parameterized by a neural network architecture. For optimization, the model is trained to approximate the posterior distribution of the original LDA model. Experiments show the improvements of our model on microtexts as well as its runtime advantage.
Bayesian Allocation Model: Inference by Sequential Monte Carlo for   Nonnegative Tensor Factorizations and Topic Models using Polya Urns.We introduce a dynamic generative model, Bayesian allocation model (BAM), which establishes explicit connections between nonnegative tensor factorization (NTF), graphical models of discrete probability distributions and their Bayesian extensions, and the topic models such as the latent Dirichlet allocation. BAM is based on a Poisson process, whose events are marked by using a Bayesian network, where the conditional probability tables of this network are then integrated out analytically. We show that the resulting marginal process turns out to be a Polya urn, an integer valued self-reinforcing process. This urn processes, which we name a Polya-Bayes process, obey certain conditional independence properties that provide further insight about the nature of NTF. These insights also let us develop space efficient simulation algorithms that respect the potential sparsity of data: we propose a class of sequential importance sampling algorithms for computing NTF and approximating their marginal likelihood, which would be useful for model selection. The resulting methods can also be viewed as a model scoring method for topic models and discrete Bayesian networks with hidden variables. The new algorithms have favourable properties in the sparse data regime when contrasted with variational algorithms that become more accurate when the total sum of the elements of the observed tensor goes to infinity. We illustrate the performance on several examples and numerically study the behaviour of the algorithms for various data regimes.
On a Topic Model for Sentences.Probabilistic topic models are generative models that describe the content of documents by discovering the latent topics underlying them. However, the structure of the textual input, and for instance the grouping of words in coherent text spans such as sentences, contains much information which is generally lost with these models. In this paper, we propose sentenceLDA, an extension of LDA whose goal is to overcome this limitation by incorporating the structure of the text in the generative and inference processes. We illustrate the advantages of sentenceLDA by comparing it with LDA using both intrinsic (perplexity) and extrinsic (text classification) evaluation tasks on different text collections.
AttentionXML: Label Tree-based Attention-Aware Deep Model for   High-Performance Extreme Multi-Label Text Classification.Extreme multi-label text classification (XMTC) is an important problem in the era of big data, for tagging a given text with the most relevant multiple labels from an extremely large-scale label set. XMTC can be found in many applications, such as item categorization, web page tagging, and news annotation. Traditionally most methods used bag-of-words (BOW) as inputs, ignoring word context as well as deep semantic information. Recent attempts to overcome the problems of BOW by deep learning still suffer from 1) failing to capture the important subtext for each label and 2) lack of scalability against the huge number of labels. We propose a new label tree-based deep learning model for XMTC, called AttentionXML, with two unique features: 1) a multi-label attention mechanism with raw text as input, which allows to capture the most relevant part of text to each label; and 2) a shallow and wide probabilistic label tree (PLT), which allows to handle millions of labels, especially for "tail labels". We empirically compared the performance of AttentionXML with those of eight state-of-the-art methods over six benchmark datasets, including Amazon-3M with around 3 million labels. AttentionXML outperformed all competing methods under all experimental settings. Experimental results also show that AttentionXML achieved the best performance against tail labels among label tree-based methods. The code and datasets are available at http://github.com/yourh/AttentionXML .
FRAGE: Frequency-Agnostic Word Representation.Continuous word representation (aka word embedding) is a basic building block in many neural network-based models used in natural language processing tasks. Although it is widely accepted that words with similar semantics should be close to each other in the embedding space, we find that word embeddings learned in several tasks are biased towards word frequency: the embeddings of high-frequency and low-frequency words lie in different subregions of the embedding space, and the embedding of a rare word and a popular word can be far from each other even if they are semantically similar. This makes learned word embeddings ineffective, especially for rare words, and consequently limits the performance of these neural network models. In this paper, we develop a neat, simple yet effective way to learn \emph{FRequency-AGnostic word Embedding} (FRAGE) using adversarial training. We conducted comprehensive studies on ten datasets across four natural language processing tasks, including word similarity, language modeling, machine translation and text classification. Results show that with FRAGE, we achieve higher performance than the baselines in all tasks.
MixText: Linguistically-Informed Interpolation of Hidden Space for   Semi-Supervised Text Classification.This paper presents MixText, a semi-supervised learning method for text classification, which uses our newly designed data augmentation method called TMix. TMix creates a large amount of augmented training samples by interpolating text in hidden space. Moreover, we leverage recent advances in data augmentation to guess low-entropy labels for unlabeled data, hence making them as easy to use as labeled data.By mixing labeled, unlabeled and augmented data, MixText significantly outperformed current pre-trained and fined-tuned models and other state-of-the-art semi-supervised learning methods on several text classification benchmarks. The improvement is especially prominent when supervision is extremely limited. We have publicly released our code at https://github.com/GT-SALT/MixText.
When Low Resource NLP Meets Unsupervised Language Model:   Meta-pretraining Then Meta-learning for Few-shot Text Classification.Text classification tends to be difficult when data are deficient or when it is required to adapt to unseen classes. In such challenging scenarios, recent studies have often used meta-learning to simulate the few-shot task, thus negating implicit common linguistic features across tasks. This paper addresses such problems using meta-learning and unsupervised language models. Our approach is based on the insight that having a good generalization from a few examples relies on both a generic model initialization and an effective strategy for adapting this model to newly arising tasks. We show that our approach is not only simple but also produces a state-of-the-art performance on a well-studied sentiment classification dataset. It can thus be further suggested that pretraining could be a promising solution for few-shot learning of many other NLP tasks. The code and the dataset to replicate the experiments are made available at https://github.com/zxlzr/FewShotNLP.
PubMed 200k RCT: a Dataset for Sequential Sentence Classification in   Medical Abstracts.We present PubMed 200k RCT, a new dataset based on PubMed for sequential sentence classification. The dataset consists of approximately 200,000 abstracts of randomized controlled trials, totaling 2.3 million sentences. Each sentence of each abstract is labeled with their role in the abstract using one of the following classes: background, objective, method, result, or conclusion. The purpose of releasing this dataset is twofold. First, the majority of datasets for sequential short-text classification (i.e., classification of short texts that appear in sequences) are small: we hope that releasing a new large dataset will help develop more accurate algorithms for this task. Second, from an application perspective, researchers need better tools to efficiently skim through the literature. Automatically classifying each sentence in an abstract would help researchers read abstracts more efficiently, especially in fields where abstracts may be long, such as the medical field.
Achieving Verified Robustness to Symbol Substitutions via Interval Bound   Propagation.Neural networks are part of many contemporary NLP systems, yet their empirical successes come at the price of vulnerability to adversarial attacks. Previous work has used adversarial training and data augmentation to partially mitigate such brittleness, but these are unlikely to find worst-case adversaries due to the complexity of the search space arising from discrete text perturbations. In this work, we approach the problem from the opposite direction: to formally verify a system's robustness against a predefined class of adversarial attacks. We study text classification under synonym replacements or character flip perturbations. We propose modeling these input perturbations as a simplex and then using Interval Bound Propagation -- a formal model verification method. We modify the conventional log-likelihood training objective to train models that can be efficiently verified, which would otherwise come with exponential search complexity. The resulting models show only little difference in terms of nominal accuracy, but have much improved verified accuracy under perturbations and come with an efficiently computable formal guarantee on worst case adversaries.
REALM: Retrieval-Augmented Language Model Pre-Training.Language model pre-training has been shown to capture a surprising amount of world knowledge, crucial for NLP tasks such as question answering. However, this knowledge is stored implicitly in the parameters of a neural network, requiring ever-larger networks to cover more facts.   To capture knowledge in a more modular and interpretable way, we augment language model pre-training with a latent knowledge retriever, which allows the model to retrieve and attend over documents from a large corpus such as Wikipedia, used during pre-training, fine-tuning and inference. For the first time, we show how to pre-train such a knowledge retriever in an unsupervised manner, using masked language modeling as the learning signal and backpropagating through a retrieval step that considers millions of documents.   We demonstrate the effectiveness of Retrieval-Augmented Language Model pre-training (REALM) by fine-tuning on the challenging task of Open-domain Question Answering (Open-QA). We compare against state-of-the-art models for both explicit and implicit knowledge storage on three popular Open-QA benchmarks, and find that we outperform all previous methods by a significant margin (4-16% absolute accuracy), while also providing qualitative benefits such as interpretability and modularity.
Megatron-LM: Training Multi-Billion Parameter Language Models Using   Model Parallelism.Recent work in language modeling demonstrates that training large transformer models advances the state of the art in Natural Language Processing applications. However, very large models can be quite difficult to train due to memory constraints. In this work, we present our techniques for training very large transformer models and implement a simple, efficient intra-layer model parallel approach that enables training transformer models with billions of parameters. Our approach does not require a new compiler or library changes, is orthogonal and complimentary to pipeline model parallelism, and can be fully implemented with the insertion of a few communication operations in native PyTorch. We illustrate this approach by converging transformer based models up to 8.3 billion parameters using 512 GPUs. We sustain 15.1 PetaFLOPs across the entire application with 76% scaling efficiency when compared to a strong single GPU baseline that sustains 39 TeraFLOPs, which is 30% of peak FLOPs. To demonstrate that large language models can further advance the state of the art (SOTA), we train an 8.3 billion parameter transformer language model similar to GPT-2 and a 3.9 billion parameter model similar to BERT. We show that careful attention to the placement of layer normalization in BERT-like models is critical to achieving increased performance as the model size grows. Using the GPT-2 model we achieve SOTA results on the WikiText103 (10.8 compared to SOTA perplexity of 15.8) and LAMBADA (66.5% compared to SOTA accuracy of 63.2%) datasets. Our BERT model achieves SOTA results on the RACE dataset (90.9% compared to SOTA accuracy of 89.4%).
Masked Language Model Scoring.Pretrained masked language models (MLMs) require finetuning for most NLP tasks. Instead, we evaluate MLMs out of the box via their pseudo-log-likelihood scores (PLLs), which are computed by masking tokens one by one. We show that PLLs outperform scores from autoregressive language models like GPT-2 in a variety of tasks. By rescoring ASR and NMT hypotheses, RoBERTa reduces an end-to-end LibriSpeech model's WER by 30% relative and adds up to +1.7 BLEU on state-of-the-art baselines for low-resource translation pairs, with further gains from domain adaptation. We attribute this success to PLL's unsupervised expression of linguistic acceptability without a left-to-right bias, greatly improving on scores from GPT-2 (+10 points on island effects, NPI licensing in BLiMP). One can finetune MLMs to give scores without masking, enabling computation in a single inference pass. In all, PLLs and their associated pseudo-perplexities (PPPLs) enable plug-and-play use of the growing number of pretrained MLMs; e.g., we use a single cross-lingual model to rerank translations in multiple languages. We release our library for language model scoring at https://github.com/awslabs/mlm-scoring.
A Hybrid Neural Network Model for Commonsense Reasoning.This paper proposes a hybrid neural network (HNN) model for commonsense reasoning. An HNN consists of two component models, a masked language model and a semantic similarity model, which share a BERT-based contextual encoder but use different model-specific input and output layers. HNN obtains new state-of-the-art results on three classic commonsense reasoning tasks, pushing the WNLI benchmark to 89%, the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) benchmark to 75.1%, and the PDP60 benchmark to 90.0%. An ablation study shows that language models and semantic similarity models are complementary approaches to commonsense reasoning, and HNN effectively combines the strengths of both. The code and pre-trained models will be publicly available at https://github.com/namisan/mt-dnn.
Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks for Natural Language Understanding.In this paper, we present a Multi-Task Deep Neural Network (MT-DNN) for learning representations across multiple natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. MT-DNN not only leverages large amounts of cross-task data, but also benefits from a regularization effect that leads to more general representations in order to adapt to new tasks and domains. MT-DNN extends the model proposed in Liu et al. (2015) by incorporating a pre-trained bidirectional transformer language model, known as BERT (Devlin et al., 2018). MT-DNN obtains new state-of-the-art results on ten NLU tasks, including SNLI, SciTail, and eight out of nine GLUE tasks, pushing the GLUE benchmark to 82.7% (2.2% absolute improvement). We also demonstrate using the SNLI and SciTail datasets that the representations learned by MT-DNN allow domain adaptation with substantially fewer in-domain labels than the pre-trained BERT representations. The code and pre-trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/namisan/mt-dnn.
Evaluation of sentence embeddings in downstream and linguistic probing   tasks.Despite the fast developmental pace of new sentence embedding methods, it is still challenging to find comprehensive evaluations of these different techniques. In the past years, we saw significant improvements in the field of sentence embeddings and especially towards the development of universal sentence encoders that could provide inductive transfer to a wide variety of downstream tasks. In this work, we perform a comprehensive evaluation of recent methods using a wide variety of downstream and linguistic feature probing tasks. We show that a simple approach using bag-of-words with a recently introduced language model for deep context-dependent word embeddings proved to yield better results in many tasks when compared to sentence encoders trained on entailment datasets. We also show, however, that we are still far away from a universal encoder that can perform consistently across several downstream tasks.
AdaBelief Optimizer: Adapting Stepsizes by the Belief in Observed   Gradients.Most popular optimizers for deep learning can be broadly categorized as adaptive methods (e.g. Adam) and accelerated schemes (e.g. stochastic gradient descent (SGD) with momentum). For many models such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), adaptive methods typically converge faster but generalize worse compared to SGD; for complex settings such as generative adversarial networks (GANs), adaptive methods are typically the default because of their stability.We propose AdaBelief to simultaneously achieve three goals: fast convergence as in adaptive methods, good generalization as in SGD, and training stability. The intuition for AdaBelief is to adapt the stepsize according to the "belief" in the current gradient direction. Viewing the exponential moving average (EMA) of the noisy gradient as the prediction of the gradient at the next time step, if the observed gradient greatly deviates from the prediction, we distrust the current observation and take a small step; if the observed gradient is close to the prediction, we trust it and take a large step. We validate AdaBelief in extensive experiments, showing that it outperforms other methods with fast convergence and high accuracy on image classification and language modeling. Specifically, on ImageNet, AdaBelief achieves comparable accuracy to SGD. Furthermore, in the training of a GAN on Cifar10, AdaBelief demonstrates high stability and improves the quality of generated samples compared to a well-tuned Adam optimizer. Code is available at https://github.com/juntang-zhuang/Adabelief-Optimizer
Improving Generalization Performance by Switching from Adam to SGD.Despite superior training outcomes, adaptive optimization methods such as Adam, Adagrad or RMSprop have been found to generalize poorly compared to Stochastic gradient descent (SGD). These methods tend to perform well in the initial portion of training but are outperformed by SGD at later stages of training. We investigate a hybrid strategy that begins training with an adaptive method and switches to SGD when appropriate. Concretely, we propose SWATS, a simple strategy which switches from Adam to SGD when a triggering condition is satisfied. The condition we propose relates to the projection of Adam steps on the gradient subspace. By design, the monitoring process for this condition adds very little overhead and does not increase the number of hyperparameters in the optimizer. We report experiments on several standard benchmarks such as: ResNet, SENet, DenseNet and PyramidNet for the CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 data sets, ResNet on the tiny-ImageNet data set and language modeling with recurrent networks on the PTB and WT2 data sets. The results show that our strategy is capable of closing the generalization gap between SGD and Adam on a majority of the tasks.
Robustly Pre-trained Neural Model for Direct Temporal Relation   Extraction.Background: Identifying relationships between clinical events and temporal expressions is a key challenge in meaningfully analyzing clinical text for use in advanced AI applications. While previous studies exist, the state-of-the-art performance has significant room for improvement.   Methods: We studied several variants of BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations using Transformers) some involving clinical domain customization and the others involving improved architecture and/or training strategies. We evaluated these methods using a direct temporal relations dataset which is a semantically focused subset of the 2012 i2b2 temporal relations challenge dataset.   Results: Our results show that RoBERTa, which employs better pre-training strategies including using 10x larger corpus, has improved overall F measure by 0.0864 absolute score (on the 1.00 scale) and thus reducing the error rate by 24% relative to the previous state-of-the-art performance achieved with an SVM (support vector machine) model.   Conclusion: Modern contextual language modeling neural networks, pre-trained on a large corpus, achieve impressive performance even on highly-nuanced clinical temporal relation tasks.
Data Augmentation using Pre-trained Transformer Models.Language model based pre-trained models such as BERT have provided significant gains across different NLP tasks. In this paper, we study different types of pre-trained transformer based models such as auto-regressive models (GPT-2), auto-encoder models (BERT), and seq2seq models (BART) for conditional data augmentation. We show that prepending the class labels to text sequences provides a simple yet effective way to condition the pre-trained models for data augmentation. On three classification benchmarks, pre-trained Seq2Seq model outperforms other models. Further, we explore how different pre-trained model based data augmentation differs in-terms of data diversity, and how well such methods preserve the class-label information.
Guided Alignment Training for Topic-Aware Neural Machine Translation.In this paper, we propose an effective way for biasing the attention mechanism of a sequence-to-sequence neural machine translation (NMT) model towards the well-studied statistical word alignment models. We show that our novel guided alignment training approach improves translation quality on real-life e-commerce texts consisting of product titles and descriptions, overcoming the problems posed by many unknown words and a large type/token ratio. We also show that meta-data associated with input texts such as topic or category information can significantly improve translation quality when used as an additional signal to the decoder part of the network. With both novel features, the BLEU score of the NMT system on a product title set improves from 18.6 to 21.3%. Even larger MT quality gains are obtained through domain adaptation of a general domain NMT system to e-commerce data. The developed NMT system also performs well on the IWSLT speech translation task, where an ensemble of four variant systems outperforms the phrase-based baseline by 2.1% BLEU absolute.
Sequence-Level Knowledge Distillation.Neural machine translation (NMT) offers a novel alternative formulation of translation that is potentially simpler than statistical approaches. However to reach competitive performance, NMT models need to be exceedingly large. In this paper we consider applying knowledge distillation approaches (Bucila et al., 2006; Hinton et al., 2015) that have proven successful for reducing the size of neural models in other domains to the problem of NMT. We demonstrate that standard knowledge distillation applied to word-level prediction can be effective for NMT, and also introduce two novel sequence-level versions of knowledge distillation that further improve performance, and somewhat surprisingly, seem to eliminate the need for beam search (even when applied on the original teacher model). Our best student model runs 10 times faster than its state-of-the-art teacher with little loss in performance. It is also significantly better than a baseline model trained without knowledge distillation: by 4.2/1.7 BLEU with greedy decoding/beam search. Applying weight pruning on top of knowledge distillation results in a student model that has 13 times fewer parameters than the original teacher model, with a decrease of 0.4 BLEU.
Subword Segmentation and a Single Bridge Language Affect Zero-Shot   Neural Machine Translation.Zero-shot neural machine translation is an attractive goal because of the high cost of obtaining data and building translation systems for new translation directions. However, previous papers have reported mixed success in zero-shot translation. It is hard to predict in which settings it will be effective, and what limits performance compared to a fully supervised system. In this paper, we investigate zero-shot performance of a multilingual EN$\leftrightarrow${FR,CS,DE,FI} system trained on WMT data. We find that zero-shot performance is highly unstable and can vary by more than 6 BLEU between training runs, making it difficult to reliably track improvements. We observe a bias towards copying the source in zero-shot translation, and investigate how the choice of subword segmentation affects this bias. We find that language-specific subword segmentation results in less subword copying at training time, and leads to better zero-shot performance compared to jointly trained segmentation. A recent trend in multilingual models is to not train on parallel data between all language pairs, but have a single bridge language, e.g. English. We find that this negatively affects zero-shot translation and leads to a failure mode where the model ignores the language tag and instead produces English output in zero-shot directions. We show that this bias towards English can be effectively reduced with even a small amount of parallel data in some of the non-English pairs.
The Sockeye 2 Neural Machine Translation Toolkit at AMTA 2020.We present Sockeye 2, a modernized and streamlined version of the Sockeye neural machine translation (NMT) toolkit. New features include a simplified code base through the use of MXNet's Gluon API, a focus on state of the art model architectures, distributed mixed precision training, and efficient CPU decoding with 8-bit quantization. These improvements result in faster training and inference, higher automatic metric scores, and a shorter path from research to production.
Segmental Recurrent Neural Networks.We introduce segmental recurrent neural networks (SRNNs) which define, given an input sequence, a joint probability distribution over segmentations of the input and labelings of the segments. Representations of the input segments (i.e., contiguous subsequences of the input) are computed by encoding their constituent tokens using bidirectional recurrent neural nets, and these "segment embeddings" are used to define compatibility scores with output labels. These local compatibility scores are integrated using a global semi-Markov conditional random field. Both fully supervised training -- in which segment boundaries and labels are observed -- as well as partially supervised training -- in which segment boundaries are latent -- are straightforward. Experiments on handwriting recognition and joint Chinese word segmentation/POS tagging show that, compared to models that do not explicitly represent segments such as BIO tagging schemes and connectionist temporal classification (CTC), SRNNs obtain substantially higher accuracies.
MICE: Mining Idioms with Contextual Embeddings.Idiomatic expressions can be problematic for natural language processing applications as their meaning cannot be inferred from their constituting words. A lack of successful methodological approaches and sufficiently large datasets prevents the development of machine learning approaches for detecting idioms, especially for expressions that do not occur in the training set. We present an approach, called MICE, that uses contextual embeddings for that purpose. We present a new dataset of multi-word expressions with literal and idiomatic meanings and use it to train a classifier based on two state-of-the-art contextual word embeddings: ELMo and BERT. We show that deep neural networks using both embeddings perform much better than existing approaches, and are capable of detecting idiomatic word use, even for expressions that were not present in the training set. We demonstrate cross-lingual transfer of developed models and analyze the size of the required dataset.
Beheshti-NER: Persian Named Entity Recognition Using BERT.Named entity recognition is a natural language processing task to recognize and extract spans of text associated with named entities and classify them in semantic Categories.   Google BERT is a deep bidirectional language model, pre-trained on large corpora that can be fine-tuned to solve many NLP tasks such as question answering, named entity recognition, part of speech tagging and etc. In this paper, we use the pre-trained deep bidirectional network, BERT, to make a model for named entity recognition in Persian.   We also compare the results of our model with the previous state of the art results achieved on Persian NER. Our evaluation metric is CONLL 2003 score in two levels of word and phrase. This model achieved second place in NSURL-2019 task 7 competition which associated with NER for the Persian language. our results in this competition are 83.5 and 88.4 f1 CONLL score respectively in phrase and word level evaluation.
Robust Multilingual Part-of-Speech Tagging via Adversarial Training.Adversarial training (AT) is a powerful regularization method for neural networks, aiming to achieve robustness to input perturbations. Yet, the specific effects of the robustness obtained from AT are still unclear in the context of natural language processing. In this paper, we propose and analyze a neural POS tagging model that exploits AT. In our experiments on the Penn Treebank WSJ corpus and the Universal Dependencies (UD) dataset (27 languages), we find that AT not only improves the overall tagging accuracy, but also 1) prevents over-fitting well in low resource languages and 2) boosts tagging accuracy for rare / unseen words. We also demonstrate that 3) the improved tagging performance by AT contributes to the downstream task of dependency parsing, and that 4) AT helps the model to learn cleaner word representations. 5) The proposed AT model is generally effective in different sequence labeling tasks. These positive results motivate further use of AT for natural language tasks.
PAMPO: using pattern matching and pos-tagging for effective Named   Entities recognition in Portuguese.This paper deals with the entity extraction task (named entity recognition) of a text mining process that aims at unveiling non-trivial semantic structures, such as relationships and interaction between entities or communities. In this paper we present a simple and efficient named entity extraction algorithm. The method, named PAMPO (PAttern Matching and POs tagging based algorithm for NER), relies on flexible pattern matching, part-of-speech tagging and lexical-based rules. It was developed to process texts written in Portuguese, however it is potentially applicable to other languages as well.   We compare our approach with current alternatives that support Named Entity Recognition (NER) for content written in Portuguese. These are Alchemy, Zemanta and Rembrandt. Evaluation of the efficacy of the entity extraction method on several texts written in Portuguese indicates a considerable improvement on $recall$ and $F_1$ measures.
GIRNet: Interleaved Multi-Task Recurrent State Sequence Models.In several natural language tasks, labeled sequences are available in separate domains (say, languages), but the goal is to label sequences with mixed domain (such as code-switched text). Or, we may have available models for labeling whole passages (say, with sentiments), which we would like to exploit toward better position-specific label inference (say, target-dependent sentiment annotation). A key characteristic shared across such tasks is that different positions in a primary instance can benefit from different `experts' trained from auxiliary data, but labeled primary instances are scarce, and labeling the best expert for each position entails unacceptable cognitive burden. We propose GITNet, a unified position-sensitive multi-task recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture for such applications. Auxiliary and primary tasks need not share training instances. Auxiliary RNNs are trained over auxiliary instances. A primary instance is also submitted to each auxiliary RNN, but their state sequences are gated and merged into a novel composite state sequence tailored to the primary inference task. Our approach is in sharp contrast to recent multi-task networks like the cross-stitch and sluice network, which do not control state transfer at such fine granularity. We demonstrate the superiority of GIRNet using three applications: sentiment classification of code-switched passages, part-of-speech tagging of code-switched text, and target position-sensitive annotation of sentiment in monolingual passages. In all cases, we establish new state-of-the-art performance beyond recent competitive baselines.
Using J-K fold Cross Validation to Reduce Variance When Tuning NLP   Models.K-fold cross validation (CV) is a popular method for estimating the true performance of machine learning models, allowing model selection and parameter tuning. However, the very process of CV requires random partitioning of the data and so our performance estimates are in fact stochastic, with variability that can be substantial for natural language processing tasks. We demonstrate that these unstable estimates cannot be relied upon for effective parameter tuning. The resulting tuned parameters are highly sensitive to how our data is partitioned, meaning that we often select sub-optimal parameter choices and have serious reproducibility issues.   Instead, we propose to use the less variable J-K-fold CV, in which J independent K-fold cross validations are used to assess performance. Our main contributions are extending J-K-fold CV from performance estimation to parameter tuning and investigating how to choose J and K. We argue that variability is more important than bias for effective tuning and so advocate lower choices of K than are typically seen in the NLP literature, instead use the saved computation to increase J. To demonstrate the generality of our recommendations we investigate a wide range of case-studies: sentiment classification (both general and target-specific), part-of-speech tagging and document classification.
Semantic Tagging with Deep Residual Networks.We propose a novel semantic tagging task, sem-tagging, tailored for the purpose of multilingual semantic parsing, and present the first tagger using deep residual networks (ResNets). Our tagger uses both word and character representations and includes a novel residual bypass architecture. We evaluate the tagset both intrinsically on the new task of semantic tagging, as well as on Part-of-Speech (POS) tagging. Our system, consisting of a ResNet and an auxiliary loss function predicting our semantic tags, significantly outperforms prior results on English Universal Dependencies POS tagging (95.71% accuracy on UD v1.2 and 95.67% accuracy on UD v1.3).
Sentimental LIAR: Extended Corpus and Deep Learning Models for Fake   Claim Classification.The rampant integration of social media in our every day lives and culture has given rise to fast and easier access to the flow of information than ever in human history. However, the inherently unsupervised nature of social media platforms has also made it easier to spread false information and fake news. Furthermore, the high volume and velocity of information flow in such platforms make manual supervision and control of information propagation infeasible. This paper aims to address this issue by proposing a novel deep learning approach for automated detection of false short-text claims on social media. We first introduce Sentimental LIAR, which extends the LIAR dataset of short claims by adding features based on sentiment and emotion analysis of claims. Furthermore, we propose a novel deep learning architecture based on the BERT-Base language model for classification of claims as genuine or fake. Our results demonstrate that the proposed architecture trained on Sentimental LIAR can achieve an accuracy of 70%, which is an improvement of ~30% over previously reported results for the LIAR benchmark.
A Efficient Multimodal Framework for Large Scale Emotion Recognition by   Fusing Music and Electrodermal Activity Signals.Considerable attention has been paid for physiological signal-based emotion recognition in field of affective computing. For the reliability and user friendly acquisition, Electrodermal Activity (EDA) has great advantage in practical applications. However, the EDA-based emotion recognition with hundreds of subjects still lacks effective solution. In this paper, our work makes an attempt to fuse the subject individual EDA features and the external evoked music features. And we propose an end-to-end multimodal framework, the 1-dimensional residual temporal and channel attention network (RTCAN-1D). For EDA features, the novel convex optimization-based EDA (CvxEDA) method is applied to decompose EDA signals into pahsic and tonic signals for mining the dynamic and steady features. The channel-temporal attention mechanism for EDA-based emotion recognition is firstly involved to improve the temporal- and channel-wise representation. For music features, we process the music signal with the open source toolkit openSMILE to obtain external feature vectors. The individual emotion features from EDA signals and external emotion benchmarks from music are fused in the classifing layers. We have conducted systematic comparisons on three multimodal datasets (PMEmo, DEAP, AMIGOS) for 2-classes valance/arousal emotion recognition. Our proposed RTCAN-1D outperforms the existing state-of-the-art models, which also validate that our work provides an reliable and efficient solution for large scale emotion recognition. Our code has been released at https://github.com/guanghaoyin/RTCAN-1D.
YNU-HPCC at SemEval-2020 Task 8: Using a Parallel-Channel Model for   Memotion Analysis.In recent years, the growing ubiquity of Internet memes on social media platforms, such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, has become a topic of immense interest. However, the classification and recognition of memes is much more complicated than that of social text since it involves visual cues and language understanding. To address this issue, this paper proposed a parallel-channel model to process the textual and visual information in memes and then analyze the sentiment polarity of memes. In the shared task of identifying and categorizing memes, we preprocess the dataset according to the language behaviors on social media. Then, we adapt and fine-tune the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), and two types of convolutional neural network models (CNNs) were used to extract the features from the pictures. We applied an ensemble model that combined the BiLSTM, BIGRU, and Attention models to perform cross domain suggestion mining. The officially released results show that our system performs better than the baseline algorithm. Our team won nineteenth place in subtask A (Sentiment Classification). The code of this paper is availabled at : https://github.com/YuanLi95/Semveal2020-Task8-emotion-analysis.
Emotion Recognition in Audio and Video Using Deep Neural Networks.Humans are able to comprehend information from multiple domains for e.g. speech, text and visual. With advancement of deep learning technology there has been significant improvement of speech recognition. Recognizing emotion from speech is important aspect and with deep learning technology emotion recognition has improved in accuracy and latency. There are still many challenges to improve accuracy. In this work, we attempt to explore different neural networks to improve accuracy of emotion recognition. With different architectures explored, we find (CNN+RNN) + 3DCNN multi-model architecture which processes audio spectrograms and corresponding video frames giving emotion prediction accuracy of 54.0% among 4 emotions and 71.75% among 3 emotions using IEMOCAP[2] dataset.
K-EmoCon, a multimodal sensor dataset for continuous emotion recognition   in naturalistic conversations.Recognizing emotions during social interactions has many potential applications with the popularization of low-cost mobile sensors, but a challenge remains with the lack of naturalistic affective interaction data. Most existing emotion datasets do not support studying idiosyncratic emotions arising in the wild as they were collected in constrained environments. Therefore, studying emotions in the context of social interactions requires a novel dataset, and K-EmoCon is such a multimodal dataset with comprehensive annotations of continuous emotions during naturalistic conversations. The dataset contains multimodal measurements, including audiovisual recordings, EEG, and peripheral physiological signals, acquired with off-the-shelf devices from 16 sessions of approximately 10-minute long paired debates on a social issue. Distinct from previous datasets, it includes emotion annotations from all three available perspectives: self, debate partner, and external observers. Raters annotated emotional displays at intervals of every 5 seconds while viewing the debate footage, in terms of arousal-valence and 18 additional categorical emotions. The resulting K-EmoCon is the first publicly available emotion dataset accommodating the multiperspective assessment of emotions during social interactions.
Multimodal Emotion Recognition Using Deep Canonical Correlation Analysis.Multimodal signals are more powerful than unimodal data for emotion recognition since they can represent emotions more comprehensively. In this paper, we introduce deep canonical correlation analysis (DCCA) to multimodal emotion recognition. The basic idea behind DCCA is to transform each modality separately and coordinate different modalities into a hyperspace by using specified canonical correlation analysis constraints. We evaluate the performance of DCCA on five multimodal datasets: the SEED, SEED-IV, SEED-V, DEAP, and DREAMER datasets. Our experimental results demonstrate that DCCA achieves state-of-the-art recognition accuracy rates on all five datasets: 94.58% on the SEED dataset, 87.45% on the SEED-IV dataset, 84.33% and 85.62% for two binary classification tasks and 88.51% for a four-category classification task on the DEAP dataset, 83.08% on the SEED-V dataset, and 88.99%, 90.57%, and 90.67% for three binary classification tasks on the DREAMER dataset. We also compare the noise robustness of DCCA with that of existing methods when adding various amounts of noise to the SEED-V dataset. The experimental results indicate that DCCA has greater robustness. By visualizing feature distributions with t-SNE and calculating the mutual information between different modalities before and after using DCCA, we find that the features transformed by DCCA from different modalities are more homogeneous and discriminative across emotions.
Emotion Action Detection and Emotion Inference: the Task and Dataset.Many Natural Language Processing works on emotion analysis only focus on simple emotion classification without exploring the potentials of putting emotion into "event context", and ignore the analysis of emotion-related events. One main reason is the lack of this kind of corpus. Here we present Cause-Emotion-Action Corpus, which manually annotates not only emotion, but also cause events and action events. We propose two new tasks based on the data-set: emotion causality and emotion inference. The first task is to extract a triple (cause, emotion, action). The second task is to infer the probable emotion. We are currently releasing the data-set with 10,603 samples and 15,892 events, basic statistic analysis and baseline on both emotion causality and emotion inference tasks. Baseline performance demonstrates that there is much room for both tasks to be improved.
Is Everything Fine, Grandma? Acoustic and Linguistic Modeling for Robust   Elderly Speech Emotion Recognition.Acoustic and linguistic analysis for elderly emotion recognition is an under-studied and challenging research direction, but essential for the creation of digital assistants for the elderly, as well as unobtrusive telemonitoring of elderly in their residences for mental healthcare purposes. This paper presents our contribution to the INTERSPEECH 2020 Computational Paralinguistics Challenge (ComParE) - Elderly Emotion Sub-Challenge, which is comprised of two ternary classification tasks for arousal and valence recognition. We propose a bi-modal framework, where these tasks are modeled using state-of-the-art acoustic and linguistic features, respectively. In this study, we demonstrate that exploiting task-specific dictionaries and resources can boost the performance of linguistic models, when the amount of labeled data is small. Observing a high mismatch between development and test set performances of various models, we also propose alternative training and decision fusion strategies to better estimate and improve the generalization performance.
Deep Learning based Emotion Recognition System Using Speech Features and   Transcriptions.This paper proposes a speech emotion recognition method based on speech features and speech transcriptions (text). Speech features such as Spectrogram and Mel-frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) help retain emotion-related low-level characteristics in speech whereas text helps capture semantic meaning, both of which help in different aspects of emotion detection. We experimented with several Deep Neural Network (DNN) architectures, which take in different combinations of speech features and text as inputs. The proposed network architectures achieve higher accuracies when compared to state-of-the-art methods on a benchmark dataset. The combined MFCC-Text Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model proved to be the most accurate in recognizing emotions in IEMOCAP data.
Attention-Augmented End-to-End Multi-Task Learning for Emotion   Prediction from Speech.Despite the increasing research interest in end-to-end learning systems for speech emotion recognition, conventional systems either suffer from the overfitting due in part to the limited training data, or do not explicitly consider the different contributions of automatically learnt representations for a specific task. In this contribution, we propose a novel end-to-end framework which is enhanced by learning other auxiliary tasks and an attention mechanism. That is, we jointly train an end-to-end network with several different but related emotion prediction tasks, i.e., arousal, valence, and dominance predictions, to extract more robust representations shared among various tasks than traditional systems with the hope that it is able to relieve the overfitting problem. Meanwhile, an attention layer is implemented on top of the layers for each task, with the aim to capture the contribution distribution of different segment parts for each individual task. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system, we conducted a set of experiments on the widely used database IEMOCAP. The empirical results show that the proposed systems significantly outperform corresponding baseline systems.
On the Potential of Lexico-logical Alignments for Semantic Parsing to   SQL Queries.Large-scale semantic parsing datasets annotated with logical forms have enabled major advances in supervised approaches. But can richer supervision help even more? To explore the utility of fine-grained, lexical-level supervision, we introduce Squall, a dataset that enriches 11,276 WikiTableQuestions English-language questions with manually created SQL equivalents plus alignments between SQL and question fragments. Our annotation enables new training possibilities for encoder-decoder models, including approaches from machine translation previously precluded by the absence of alignments. We propose and test two methods: (1) supervised attention; (2) adopting an auxiliary objective of disambiguating references in the input queries to table columns. In 5-fold cross validation, these strategies improve over strong baselines by 4.4% execution accuracy. Oracle experiments suggest that annotated alignments can support further accuracy gains of up to 23.9%.
Semantic Parsing with Dual Learning.Semantic parsing converts natural language queries into structured logical forms. The paucity of annotated training samples is a fundamental challenge in this field. In this work, we develop a semantic parsing framework with the dual learning algorithm, which enables a semantic parser to make full use of data (labeled and even unlabeled) through a dual-learning game. This game between a primal model (semantic parsing) and a dual model (logical form to query) forces them to regularize each other, and can achieve feedback signals from some prior-knowledge. By utilizing the prior-knowledge of logical form structures, we propose a novel reward signal at the surface and semantic levels which tends to generate complete and reasonable logical forms. Experimental results show that our approach achieves new state-of-the-art performance on ATIS dataset and gets competitive performance on Overnight dataset.
Semantic Structural Evaluation for Text Simplification.Current measures for evaluating text simplification systems focus on evaluating lexical text aspects, neglecting its structural aspects. In this paper we propose the first measure to address structural aspects of text simplification, called SAMSA. It leverages recent advances in semantic parsing to assess simplification quality by decomposing the input based on its semantic structure and comparing it to the output. SAMSA provides a reference-less automatic evaluation procedure, avoiding the problems that reference-based methods face due to the vast space of valid simplifications for a given sentence. Our human evaluation experiments show both SAMSA's substantial correlation with human judgments, as well as the deficiency of existing reference-based measures in evaluating structural simplification.
Conversational Semantic Parsing for Dialog State Tracking.We consider a new perspective on dialog state tracking (DST), the task of estimating a user's goal through the course of a dialog. By formulating DST as a semantic parsing task over hierarchical representations, we can incorporate semantic compositionality, cross-domain knowledge sharing and co-reference. We present TreeDST, a dataset of 27k conversations annotated with tree-structured dialog states and system acts. We describe an encoder-decoder framework for DST with hierarchical representations, which leads to 20% improvement over state-of-the-art DST approaches that operate on a flat meaning space of slot-value pairs.
Learning from Explanations with Neural Execution Tree.While deep neural networks have achieved impressive performance on a range of NLP tasks, these data-hungry models heavily rely on labeled data, which restricts their applications in scenarios where data annotation is expensive. Natural language (NL) explanations have been demonstrated very useful additional supervision, which can provide sufficient domain knowledge for generating more labeled data over new instances, while the annotation time only doubles. However, directly applying them for augmenting model learning encounters two challenges: (1) NL explanations are unstructured and inherently compositional, which asks for a modularized model to represent their semantics, (2) NL explanations often have large numbers of linguistic variants, resulting in low recall and limited generalization ability. In this paper, we propose a novel Neural Execution Tree (NExT) framework to augment training data for text classification using NL explanations. After transforming NL explanations into executable logical forms by semantic parsing, NExT generalizes different types of actions specified by the logical forms for labeling data instances, which substantially increases the coverage of each NL explanation. Experiments on two NLP tasks (relation extraction and sentiment analysis) demonstrate its superiority over baseline methods. Its extension to multi-hop question answering achieves performance gain with light annotation effort.
