Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Predicting Subjective Features of Questions of QA Websites using BERT.Community Question-Answering websites, such as StackOverflow and Quora, expect users to follow specific guidelines in order to maintain content quality. These systems mainly rely on community reports for assessing contents, which has serious problems such as the slow handling of violations, the loss of normal and experienced users' time, the low quality of some reports, and discouraging feedback to new users. Therefore, with the overall goal of providing solutions for automating moderation actions in Q&A websites, we aim to provide a model to predict 20 quality or subjective aspects of questions in QA websites. To this end, we used data gathered by the CrowdSource team at Google Research in 2019 and a fine-tuned pre-trained BERT model on our problem. Based on the evaluation by Mean-Squared-Error (MSE), the model achieved a value of 0.046 after 2 epochs of training, which did not improve substantially in the next ones. Results confirm that by simple fine-tuning, we can achieve accurate models in little time and on less amount of data.
BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language   Understanding.We introduce a new language representation model called BERT, which stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. Unlike recent language representation models, BERT is designed to pre-train deep bidirectional representations from unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both left and right context in all layers. As a result, the pre-trained BERT model can be fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create state-of-the-art models for a wide range of tasks, such as question answering and language inference, without substantial task-specific architecture modifications.   BERT is conceptually simple and empirically powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art results on eleven natural language processing tasks, including pushing the GLUE score to 80.5% (7.7% point absolute improvement), MultiNLI accuracy to 86.7% (4.6% absolute improvement), SQuAD v1.1 question answering Test F1 to 93.2 (1.5 point absolute improvement) and SQuAD v2.0 Test F1 to 83.1 (5.1 point absolute improvement).
Talking-Heads Attention.We introduce "talking-heads attention" - a variation on multi-head attention which includes linearprojections across the attention-heads dimension, immediately before and after the softmax operation.While inserting only a small number of additional parameters and a moderate amount of additionalcomputation, talking-heads attention leads to better perplexities on masked language modeling tasks, aswell as better quality when transfer-learning to language comprehension and question answering tasks.
ALBERT: A Lite BERT for Self-supervised Learning of Language   Representations.Increasing model size when pretraining natural language representations often results in improved performance on downstream tasks. However, at some point further model increases become harder due to GPU/TPU memory limitations and longer training times. To address these problems, we present two parameter-reduction techniques to lower memory consumption and increase the training speed of BERT. Comprehensive empirical evidence shows that our proposed methods lead to models that scale much better compared to the original BERT. We also use a self-supervised loss that focuses on modeling inter-sentence coherence, and show it consistently helps downstream tasks with multi-sentence inputs. As a result, our best model establishes new state-of-the-art results on the GLUE, RACE, and \squad benchmarks while having fewer parameters compared to BERT-large. The code and the pretrained models are available at https://github.com/google-research/ALBERT.
Learning a Natural Language Interface with Neural Programmer.Learning a natural language interface for database tables is a challenging task that involves deep language understanding and multi-step reasoning. The task is often approached by mapping natural language queries to logical forms or programs that provide the desired response when executed on the database. To our knowledge, this paper presents the first weakly supervised, end-to-end neural network model to induce such programs on a real-world dataset. We enhance the objective function of Neural Programmer, a neural network with built-in discrete operations, and apply it on WikiTableQuestions, a natural language question-answering dataset. The model is trained end-to-end with weak supervision of question-answer pairs, and does not require domain-specific grammars, rules, or annotations that are key elements in previous approaches to program induction. The main experimental result in this paper is that a single Neural Programmer model achieves 34.2% accuracy using only 10,000 examples with weak supervision. An ensemble of 15 models, with a trivial combination technique, achieves 37.7% accuracy, which is competitive to the current state-of-the-art accuracy of 37.1% obtained by a traditional natural language semantic parser.
Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering.Open-domain question answering relies on efficient passage retrieval to select candidate contexts, where traditional sparse vector space models, such as TF-IDF or BM25, are the de facto method. In this work, we show that retrieval can be practically implemented using dense representations alone, where embeddings are learned from a small number of questions and passages by a simple dual-encoder framework. When evaluated on a wide range of open-domain QA datasets, our dense retriever outperforms a strong Lucene-BM25 system largely by 9%-19% absolute in terms of top-20 passage retrieval accuracy, and helps our end-to-end QA system establish new state-of-the-art on multiple open-domain QA benchmarks.
Reformer: The Efficient Transformer.Large Transformer models routinely achieve state-of-the-art results on a number of tasks but training these models can be prohibitively costly, especially on long sequences. We introduce two techniques to improve the efficiency of Transformers. For one, we replace dot-product attention by one that uses locality-sensitive hashing, changing its complexity from O($L^2$) to O($L\log L$), where $L$ is the length of the sequence. Furthermore, we use reversible residual layers instead of the standard residuals, which allows storing activations only once in the training process instead of $N$ times, where $N$ is the number of layers. The resulting model, the Reformer, performs on par with Transformer models while being much more memory-efficient and much faster on long sequences.
BART: Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language   Generation, Translation, and Comprehension.We present BART, a denoising autoencoder for pretraining sequence-to-sequence models. BART is trained by (1) corrupting text with an arbitrary noising function, and (2) learning a model to reconstruct the original text. It uses a standard Tranformer-based neural machine translation architecture which, despite its simplicity, can be seen as generalizing BERT (due to the bidirectional encoder), GPT (with the left-to-right decoder), and many other more recent pretraining schemes. We evaluate a number of noising approaches, finding the best performance by both randomly shuffling the order of the original sentences and using a novel in-filling scheme, where spans of text are replaced with a single mask token. BART is particularly effective when fine tuned for text generation but also works well for comprehension tasks. It matches the performance of RoBERTa with comparable training resources on GLUE and SQuAD, achieves new state-of-the-art results on a range of abstractive dialogue, question answering, and summarization tasks, with gains of up to 6 ROUGE. BART also provides a 1.1 BLEU increase over a back-translation system for machine translation, with only target language pretraining. We also report ablation experiments that replicate other pretraining schemes within the BART framework, to better measure which factors most influence end-task performance.
Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text   Transformer.Transfer learning, where a model is first pre-trained on a data-rich task before being fine-tuned on a downstream task, has emerged as a powerful technique in natural language processing (NLP). The effectiveness of transfer learning has given rise to a diversity of approaches, methodology, and practice. In this paper, we explore the landscape of transfer learning techniques for NLP by introducing a unified framework that converts all text-based language problems into a text-to-text format. Our systematic study compares pre-training objectives, architectures, unlabeled data sets, transfer approaches, and other factors on dozens of language understanding tasks. By combining the insights from our exploration with scale and our new ``Colossal Clean Crawled Corpus'', we achieve state-of-the-art results on many benchmarks covering summarization, question answering, text classification, and more. To facilitate future work on transfer learning for NLP, we release our data set, pre-trained models, and code.
DistilBERT, a distilled version of BERT: smaller, faster, cheaper and   lighter.As Transfer Learning from large-scale pre-trained models becomes more prevalent in Natural Language Processing (NLP), operating these large models in on-the-edge and/or under constrained computational training or inference budgets remains challenging. In this work, we propose a method to pre-train a smaller general-purpose language representation model, called DistilBERT, which can then be fine-tuned with good performances on a wide range of tasks like its larger counterparts. While most prior work investigated the use of distillation for building task-specific models, we leverage knowledge distillation during the pre-training phase and show that it is possible to reduce the size of a BERT model by 40%, while retaining 97% of its language understanding capabilities and being 60% faster. To leverage the inductive biases learned by larger models during pre-training, we introduce a triple loss combining language modeling, distillation and cosine-distance losses. Our smaller, faster and lighter model is cheaper to pre-train and we demonstrate its capabilities for on-device computations in a proof-of-concept experiment and a comparative on-device study.
LXMERT: Learning Cross-Modality Encoder Representations from   Transformers.Vision-and-language reasoning requires an understanding of visual concepts, language semantics, and, most importantly, the alignment and relationships between these two modalities. We thus propose the LXMERT (Learning Cross-Modality Encoder Representations from Transformers) framework to learn these vision-and-language connections. In LXMERT, we build a large-scale Transformer model that consists of three encoders: an object relationship encoder, a language encoder, and a cross-modality encoder. Next, to endow our model with the capability of connecting vision and language semantics, we pre-train the model with large amounts of image-and-sentence pairs, via five diverse representative pre-training tasks: masked language modeling, masked object prediction (feature regression and label classification), cross-modality matching, and image question answering. These tasks help in learning both intra-modality and cross-modality relationships. After fine-tuning from our pre-trained parameters, our model achieves the state-of-the-art results on two visual question answering datasets (i.e., VQA and GQA). We also show the generalizability of our pre-trained cross-modality model by adapting it to a challenging visual-reasoning task, NLVR2, and improve the previous best result by 22% absolute (54% to 76%). Lastly, we demonstrate detailed ablation studies to prove that both our novel model components and pre-training strategies significantly contribute to our strong results; and also present several attention visualizations for the different encoders. Code and pre-trained models publicly available at: https://github.com/airsplay/lxmert
RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach.Language model pretraining has led to significant performance gains but careful comparison between different approaches is challenging. Training is computationally expensive, often done on private datasets of different sizes, and, as we will show, hyperparameter choices have significant impact on the final results. We present a replication study of BERT pretraining (Devlin et al., 2019) that carefully measures the impact of many key hyperparameters and training data size. We find that BERT was significantly undertrained, and can match or exceed the performance of every model published after it. Our best model achieves state-of-the-art results on GLUE, RACE and SQuAD. These results highlight the importance of previously overlooked design choices, and raise questions about the source of recently reported improvements. We release our models and code.
XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for Language Understanding.With the capability of modeling bidirectional contexts, denoising autoencoding based pretraining like BERT achieves better performance than pretraining approaches based on autoregressive language modeling. However, relying on corrupting the input with masks, BERT neglects dependency between the masked positions and suffers from a pretrain-finetune discrepancy. In light of these pros and cons, we propose XLNet, a generalized autoregressive pretraining method that (1) enables learning bidirectional contexts by maximizing the expected likelihood over all permutations of the factorization order and (2) overcomes the limitations of BERT thanks to its autoregressive formulation. Furthermore, XLNet integrates ideas from Transformer-XL, the state-of-the-art autoregressive model, into pretraining. Empirically, under comparable experiment settings, XLNet outperforms BERT on 20 tasks, often by a large margin, including question answering, natural language inference, sentiment analysis, and document ranking.
Pentagon at MEDIQA 2019: Multi-task Learning for Filtering and   Re-ranking Answers using Language Inference and Question Entailment.Parallel deep learning architectures like fine-tuned BERT and MT-DNN, have quickly become the state of the art, bypassing previous deep and shallow learning methods by a large margin. More recently, pre-trained models from large related datasets have been able to perform well on many downstream tasks by just fine-tuning on domain-specific datasets . However, using powerful models on non-trivial tasks, such as ranking and large document classification, still remains a challenge due to input size limitations of parallel architecture and extremely small datasets (insufficient for fine-tuning). In this work, we introduce an end-to-end system, trained in a multi-task setting, to filter and re-rank answers in the medical domain. We use task-specific pre-trained models as deep feature extractors. Our model achieves the highest Spearman's Rho and Mean Reciprocal Rank of 0.338 and 0.9622 respectively, on the ACL-BioNLP workshop MediQA Question Answering shared-task.
Fast Linear Model for Knowledge Graph Embeddings.This paper shows that a simple baseline based on a Bag-of-Words (BoW) representation learns surprisingly good knowledge graph embeddings. By casting knowledge base completion and question answering as supervised classification problems, we observe that modeling co-occurences of entities and relations leads to state-of-the-art performance with a training time of a few minutes using the open sourced library fastText.
Measuring Compositional Generalization: A Comprehensive Method on   Realistic Data.State-of-the-art machine learning methods exhibit limited compositional generalization. At the same time, there is a lack of realistic benchmarks that comprehensively measure this ability, which makes it challenging to find and evaluate improvements. We introduce a novel method to systematically construct such benchmarks by maximizing compound divergence while guaranteeing a small atom divergence between train and test sets, and we quantitatively compare this method to other approaches for creating compositional generalization benchmarks. We present a large and realistic natural language question answering dataset that is constructed according to this method, and we use it to analyze the compositional generalization ability of three machine learning architectures. We find that they fail to generalize compositionally and that there is a surprisingly strong negative correlation between compound divergence and accuracy. We also demonstrate how our method can be used to create new compositionality benchmarks on top of the existing SCAN dataset, which confirms these findings.
MobileBERT: a Compact Task-Agnostic BERT for Resource-Limited Devices.Natural Language Processing (NLP) has recently achieved great success by using huge pre-trained models with hundreds of millions of parameters. However, these models suffer from heavy model sizes and high latency such that they cannot be deployed to resource-limited mobile devices. In this paper, we propose MobileBERT for compressing and accelerating the popular BERT model. Like the original BERT, MobileBERT is task-agnostic, that is, it can be generically applied to various downstream NLP tasks via simple fine-tuning. Basically, MobileBERT is a thin version of BERT_LARGE, while equipped with bottleneck structures and a carefully designed balance between self-attentions and feed-forward networks. To train MobileBERT, we first train a specially designed teacher model, an inverted-bottleneck incorporated BERT_LARGE model. Then, we conduct knowledge transfer from this teacher to MobileBERT. Empirical studies show that MobileBERT is 4.3x smaller and 5.5x faster than BERT_BASE while achieving competitive results on well-known benchmarks. On the natural language inference tasks of GLUE, MobileBERT achieves a GLUEscore o 77.7 (0.6 lower than BERT_BASE), and 62 ms latency on a Pixel 4 phone. On the SQuAD v1.1/v2.0 question answering task, MobileBERT achieves a dev F1 score of 90.0/79.2 (1.5/2.1 higher than BERT_BASE).
Reducing Transformer Depth on Demand with Structured Dropout.Overparameterized transformer networks have obtained state of the art results in various natural language processing tasks, such as machine translation, language modeling, and question answering. These models contain hundreds of millions of parameters, necessitating a large amount of computation and making them prone to overfitting. In this work, we explore LayerDrop, a form of structured dropout, which has a regularization effect during training and allows for efficient pruning at inference time. In particular, we show that it is possible to select sub-networks of any depth from one large network without having to finetune them and with limited impact on performance. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by improving the state of the art on machine translation, language modeling, summarization, question answering, and language understanding benchmarks. Moreover, we show that our approach leads to small BERT-like models of higher quality compared to training from scratch or using distillation.
Deep contextualized word representations.We introduce a new type of deep contextualized word representation that models both (1) complex characteristics of word use (e.g., syntax and semantics), and (2) how these uses vary across linguistic contexts (i.e., to model polysemy). Our word vectors are learned functions of the internal states of a deep bidirectional language model (biLM), which is pre-trained on a large text corpus. We show that these representations can be easily added to existing models and significantly improve the state of the art across six challenging NLP problems, including question answering, textual entailment and sentiment analysis. We also present an analysis showing that exposing the deep internals of the pre-trained network is crucial, allowing downstream models to mix different types of semi-supervision signals.
Language Models are Few-Shot Learners.Recent work has demonstrated substantial gains on many NLP tasks and benchmarks by pre-training on a large corpus of text followed by fine-tuning on a specific task. While typically task-agnostic in architecture, this method still requires task-specific fine-tuning datasets of thousands or tens of thousands of examples. By contrast, humans can generally perform a new language task from only a few examples or from simple instructions - something which current NLP systems still largely struggle to do. Here we show that scaling up language models greatly improves task-agnostic, few-shot performance, sometimes even reaching competitiveness with prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Specifically, we train GPT-3, an autoregressive language model with 175 billion parameters, 10x more than any previous non-sparse language model, and test its performance in the few-shot setting. For all tasks, GPT-3 is applied without any gradient updates or fine-tuning, with tasks and few-shot demonstrations specified purely via text interaction with the model. GPT-3 achieves strong performance on many NLP datasets, including translation, question-answering, and cloze tasks, as well as several tasks that require on-the-fly reasoning or domain adaptation, such as unscrambling words, using a novel word in a sentence, or performing 3-digit arithmetic. At the same time, we also identify some datasets where GPT-3's few-shot learning still struggles, as well as some datasets where GPT-3 faces methodological issues related to training on large web corpora. Finally, we find that GPT-3 can generate samples of news articles which human evaluators have difficulty distinguishing from articles written by humans. We discuss broader societal impacts of this finding and of GPT-3 in general.
Reading Wikipedia to Answer Open-Domain Questions.This paper proposes to tackle open- domain question answering using Wikipedia as the unique knowledge source: the answer to any factoid question is a text span in a Wikipedia article. This task of machine reading at scale combines the challenges of document retrieval (finding the relevant articles) with that of machine comprehension of text (identifying the answer spans from those articles). Our approach combines a search component based on bigram hashing and TF-IDF matching with a multi-layer recurrent neural network model trained to detect answers in Wikipedia paragraphs. Our experiments on multiple existing QA datasets indicate that (1) both modules are highly competitive with respect to existing counterparts and (2) multitask learning using distant supervision on their combination is an effective complete system on this challenging task.
Key-Value Memory Networks for Directly Reading Documents.Directly reading documents and being able to answer questions from them is an unsolved challenge. To avoid its inherent difficulty, question answering (QA) has been directed towards using Knowledge Bases (KBs) instead, which has proven effective. Unfortunately KBs often suffer from being too restrictive, as the schema cannot support certain types of answers, and too sparse, e.g. Wikipedia contains much more information than Freebase. In this work we introduce a new method, Key-Value Memory Networks, that makes reading documents more viable by utilizing different encodings in the addressing and output stages of the memory read operation. To compare using KBs, information extraction or Wikipedia documents directly in a single framework we construct an analysis tool, WikiMovies, a QA dataset that contains raw text alongside a preprocessed KB, in the domain of movies. Our method reduces the gap between all three settings. It also achieves state-of-the-art results on the existing WikiQA benchmark.
Large-scale Simple Question Answering with Memory Networks.Training large-scale question answering systems is complicated because training sources usually cover a small portion of the range of possible questions. This paper studies the impact of multitask and transfer learning for simple question answering; a setting for which the reasoning required to answer is quite easy, as long as one can retrieve the correct evidence given a question, which can be difficult in large-scale conditions. To this end, we introduce a new dataset of 100k questions that we use in conjunction with existing benchmarks. We conduct our study within the framework of Memory Networks (Weston et al., 2015) because this perspective allows us to eventually scale up to more complex reasoning, and show that Memory Networks can be successfully trained to achieve excellent performance.
Towards AI-Complete Question Answering: A Set of Prerequisite Toy Tasks.One long-term goal of machine learning research is to produce methods that are applicable to reasoning and natural language, in particular building an intelligent dialogue agent. To measure progress towards that goal, we argue for the usefulness of a set of proxy tasks that evaluate reading comprehension via question answering. Our tasks measure understanding in several ways: whether a system is able to answer questions via chaining facts, simple induction, deduction and many more. The tasks are designed to be prerequisites for any system that aims to be capable of conversing with a human. We believe many existing learning systems can currently not solve them, and hence our aim is to classify these tasks into skill sets, so that researchers can identify (and then rectify) the failings of their systems. We also extend and improve the recently introduced Memory Networks model, and show it is able to solve some, but not all, of the tasks.
Pay Attention when Required.Transformer-based models consist of interleaved feed-forward blocks - that capture content meaning, and relatively more expensive self-attention blocks - that capture context meaning. In this paper, we explored trade-offs and ordering of the blocks to improve upon the current Transformer architecture and proposed PAR Transformer. It needs 35% lower compute time than Transformer-XL achieved by replacing ~63% of the self-attention blocks with feed-forward blocks, and retains the perplexity on WikiText-103 language modelling benchmark. We further validated our results on text8 and enwiki8 datasets, as well as on the BERT model.
Simple Recurrent Units for Highly Parallelizable Recurrence.Common recurrent neural architectures scale poorly due to the intrinsic difficulty in parallelizing their state computations. In this work, we propose the Simple Recurrent Unit (SRU), a light recurrent unit that balances model capacity and scalability. SRU is designed to provide expressive recurrence, enable highly parallelized implementation, and comes with careful initialization to facilitate training of deep models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SRU on multiple NLP tasks. SRU achieves 5--9x speed-up over cuDNN-optimized LSTM on classification and question answering datasets, and delivers stronger results than LSTM and convolutional models. We also obtain an average of 0.7 BLEU improvement over the Transformer model on translation by incorporating SRU into the architecture.
ERNIE 2.0: A Continual Pre-training Framework for Language Understanding.Recently, pre-trained models have achieved state-of-the-art results in various language understanding tasks, which indicates that pre-training on large-scale corpora may play a crucial role in natural language processing. Current pre-training procedures usually focus on training the model with several simple tasks to grasp the co-occurrence of words or sentences. However, besides co-occurring, there exists other valuable lexical, syntactic and semantic information in training corpora, such as named entity, semantic closeness and discourse relations. In order to extract to the fullest extent, the lexical, syntactic and semantic information from training corpora, we propose a continual pre-training framework named ERNIE 2.0 which builds and learns incrementally pre-training tasks through constant multi-task learning. Experimental results demonstrate that ERNIE 2.0 outperforms BERT and XLNet on 16 tasks including English tasks on GLUE benchmarks and several common tasks in Chinese. The source codes and pre-trained models have been released at https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/ERNIE.
ERNIE: Enhanced Representation through Knowledge Integration.We present a novel language representation model enhanced by knowledge called ERNIE (Enhanced Representation through kNowledge IntEgration). Inspired by the masking strategy of BERT, ERNIE is designed to learn language representation enhanced by knowledge masking strategies, which includes entity-level masking and phrase-level masking. Entity-level strategy masks entities which are usually composed of multiple words.Phrase-level strategy masks the whole phrase which is composed of several words standing together as a conceptual unit.Experimental results show that ERNIE outperforms other baseline methods, achieving new state-of-the-art results on five Chinese natural language processing tasks including natural language inference, semantic similarity, named entity recognition, sentiment analysis and question answering. We also demonstrate that ERNIE has more powerful knowledge inference capacity on a cloze test.
OpenNRE: An Open and Extensible Toolkit for Neural Relation Extraction.OpenNRE is an open-source and extensible toolkit that provides a unified framework to implement neural models for relation extraction (RE). Specifically, by implementing typical RE methods, OpenNRE not only allows developers to train custom models to extract structured relational facts from the plain text but also supports quick model validation for researchers. Besides, OpenNRE provides various functional RE modules based on both TensorFlow and PyTorch to maintain sufficient modularity and extensibility, making it becomes easy to incorporate new models into the framework. Besides the toolkit, we also release an online system to meet real-time extraction without any training and deploying. Meanwhile, the online system can extract facts in various scenarios as well as aligning the extracted facts to Wikidata, which may benefit various downstream knowledge-driven applications (e.g., information retrieval and question answering). More details of the toolkit and online system can be obtained from http://github.com/thunlp/OpenNRE.
Knowledge Representation Learning: A Quantitative Review.Knowledge representation learning (KRL) aims to represent entities and relations in knowledge graph in low-dimensional semantic space, which have been widely used in massive knowledge-driven tasks. In this article, we introduce the reader to the motivations for KRL, and overview existing approaches for KRL. Afterwards, we extensively conduct and quantitative comparison and analysis of several typical KRL methods on three evaluation tasks of knowledge acquisition including knowledge graph completion, triple classification, and relation extraction. We also review the real-world applications of KRL, such as language modeling, question answering, information retrieval, and recommender systems. Finally, we discuss the remaining challenges and outlook the future directions for KRL. The codes and datasets used in the experiments can be found in https://github.com/thunlp/OpenKE.
BioMegatron: Larger Biomedical Domain Language Model.There has been an influx of biomedical domain-specific language models, showing language models pre-trained on biomedical text perform better on biomedical domain benchmarks than those trained on general domain text corpora such as Wikipedia and Books. Yet, most works do not study the factors affecting each domain language application deeply. Additionally, the study of model size on domain-specific models has been mostly missing. We empirically study and evaluate several factors that can affect performance on domain language applications, such as the sub-word vocabulary set, model size, pre-training corpus, and domain transfer. We show consistent improvements on benchmarks with our larger BioMegatron model trained on a larger domain corpus, contributing to our understanding of domain language model applications. We demonstrate noticeable improvements over the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) on standard biomedical NLP benchmarks of named entity recognition, relation extraction, and question answering. Model checkpoints and code are available at [https://ngc.nvidia.com] and [https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo].
Biomedical Named Entity Recognition at Scale.Named entity recognition (NER) is a widely applicable natural language processing task and building block of question answering, topic modeling, information retrieval, etc. In the medical domain, NER plays a crucial role by extracting meaningful chunks from clinical notes and reports, which are then fed to downstream tasks like assertion status detection, entity resolution, relation extraction, and de-identification. Reimplementing a Bi-LSTM-CNN-Char deep learning architecture on top of Apache Spark, we present a single trainable NER model that obtains new state-of-the-art results on seven public biomedical benchmarks without using heavy contextual embeddings like BERT. This includes improving BC4CHEMD to 93.72% (4.1% gain), Species800 to 80.91% (4.6% gain), and JNLPBA to 81.29% (5.2% gain). In addition, this model is freely available within a production-grade code base as part of the open-source Spark NLP library; can scale up for training and inference in any Spark cluster; has GPU support and libraries for popular programming languages such as Python, R, Scala and Java; and can be extended to support other human languages with no code changes.
Teaching Machines to Converse.The ability of a machine to communicate with humans has long been associated with the general success of AI. This dates back to Alan Turing's epoch-making work in the early 1950s, which proposes that a machine's intelligence can be tested by how well it, the machine, can fool a human into believing that the machine is a human through dialogue conversations. Many systems learn generation rules from a minimal set of authored rules or labels on top of hand-coded rules or templates, and thus are both expensive and difficult to extend to open-domain scenarios. Recently, the emergence of neural network models the potential to solve many of the problems in dialogue learning that earlier systems cannot tackle: the end-to-end neural frameworks offer the promise of scalability and language-independence, together with the ability to track the dialogue state and then mapping between states and dialogue actions in a way not possible with conventional systems. On the other hand, neural systems bring about new challenges: they tend to output dull and generic responses; they lack a consistent or a coherent persona; they are usually optimized through single-turn conversations and are incapable of handling the long-term success of a conversation; and they are not able to take the advantage of the interactions with humans. This dissertation attempts to tackle these challenges: Contributions are two-fold: (1) we address new challenges presented by neural network models in open-domain dialogue generation systems; (2) we develop interactive question-answering dialogue systems by (a) giving the agent the ability to ask questions and (b) training a conversation agent through interactions with humans in an online fashion, where a bot improves through communicating with humans and learning from the mistakes that it makes.
Tracking the World State with Recurrent Entity Networks.We introduce a new model, the Recurrent Entity Network (EntNet). It is equipped with a dynamic long-term memory which allows it to maintain and update a representation of the state of the world as it receives new data. For language understanding tasks, it can reason on-the-fly as it reads text, not just when it is required to answer a question or respond as is the case for a Memory Network (Sukhbaatar et al., 2015). Like a Neural Turing Machine or Differentiable Neural Computer (Graves et al., 2014; 2016) it maintains a fixed size memory and can learn to perform location and content-based read and write operations. However, unlike those models it has a simple parallel architecture in which several memory locations can be updated simultaneously. The EntNet sets a new state-of-the-art on the bAbI tasks, and is the first method to solve all the tasks in the 10k training examples setting. We also demonstrate that it can solve a reasoning task which requires a large number of supporting facts, which other methods are not able to solve, and can generalize past its training horizon. It can also be practically used on large scale datasets such as Children's Book Test, where it obtains competitive performance, reading the story in a single pass.
Dialogue Learning With Human-In-The-Loop.An important aspect of developing conversational agents is to give a bot the ability to improve through communicating with humans and to learn from the mistakes that it makes. Most research has focused on learning from fixed training sets of labeled data rather than interacting with a dialogue partner in an online fashion. In this paper we explore this direction in a reinforcement learning setting where the bot improves its question-answering ability from feedback a teacher gives following its generated responses. We build a simulator that tests various aspects of such learning in a synthetic environment, and introduce models that work in this regime. Finally, real experiments with Mechanical Turk validate the approach.
End-To-End Memory Networks.We introduce a neural network with a recurrent attention model over a possibly large external memory. The architecture is a form of Memory Network (Weston et al., 2015) but unlike the model in that work, it is trained end-to-end, and hence requires significantly less supervision during training, making it more generally applicable in realistic settings. It can also be seen as an extension of RNNsearch to the case where multiple computational steps (hops) are performed per output symbol. The flexibility of the model allows us to apply it to tasks as diverse as (synthetic) question answering and to language modeling. For the former our approach is competitive with Memory Networks, but with less supervision. For the latter, on the Penn TreeBank and Text8 datasets our approach demonstrates comparable performance to RNNs and LSTMs. In both cases we show that the key concept of multiple computational hops yields improved results.
REALM: Retrieval-Augmented Language Model Pre-Training.Language model pre-training has been shown to capture a surprising amount of world knowledge, crucial for NLP tasks such as question answering. However, this knowledge is stored implicitly in the parameters of a neural network, requiring ever-larger networks to cover more facts.   To capture knowledge in a more modular and interpretable way, we augment language model pre-training with a latent knowledge retriever, which allows the model to retrieve and attend over documents from a large corpus such as Wikipedia, used during pre-training, fine-tuning and inference. For the first time, we show how to pre-train such a knowledge retriever in an unsupervised manner, using masked language modeling as the learning signal and backpropagating through a retrieval step that considers millions of documents.   We demonstrate the effectiveness of Retrieval-Augmented Language Model pre-training (REALM) by fine-tuning on the challenging task of Open-domain Question Answering (Open-QA). We compare against state-of-the-art models for both explicit and implicit knowledge storage on three popular Open-QA benchmarks, and find that we outperform all previous methods by a significant margin (4-16% absolute accuracy), while also providing qualitative benefits such as interpretability and modularity.
Synthetic Data Augmentation for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Question   Answering.Coupled with the availability of large scale datasets, deep learning architectures have enabled rapid progress on the Question Answering task. However, most of those datasets are in English, and the performances of state-of-the-art multilingual models are significantly lower when evaluated on non-English data. Due to high data collection costs, it is not realistic to obtain annotated data for each language one desires to support.   We propose a method to improve the Cross-lingual Question Answering performance without requiring additional annotated data, leveraging Question Generation models to produce synthetic samples in a cross-lingual fashion. We show that the proposed method allows to significantly outperform the baselines trained on English data only. We report a new state-of-the-art on four multilingual datasets: MLQA, XQuAD, SQuAD-it and PIAF (fr).
Unified Language Model Pre-training for Natural Language Understanding   and Generation.This paper presents a new Unified pre-trained Language Model (UniLM) that can be fine-tuned for both natural language understanding and generation tasks. The model is pre-trained using three types of language modeling tasks: unidirectional, bidirectional, and sequence-to-sequence prediction. The unified modeling is achieved by employing a shared Transformer network and utilizing specific self-attention masks to control what context the prediction conditions on. UniLM compares favorably with BERT on the GLUE benchmark, and the SQuAD 2.0 and CoQA question answering tasks. Moreover, UniLM achieves new state-of-the-art results on five natural language generation datasets, including improving the CNN/DailyMail abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 40.51 (2.04 absolute improvement), the Gigaword abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 35.75 (0.86 absolute improvement), the CoQA generative question answering F1 score to 82.5 (37.1 absolute improvement), the SQuAD question generation BLEU-4 to 22.12 (3.75 absolute improvement), and the DSTC7 document-grounded dialog response generation NIST-4 to 2.67 (human performance is 2.65). The code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/microsoft/unilm.
Adversarial Examples for Evaluating Reading Comprehension Systems.Standard accuracy metrics indicate that reading comprehension systems are making rapid progress, but the extent to which these systems truly understand language remains unclear. To reward systems with real language understanding abilities, we propose an adversarial evaluation scheme for the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD). Our method tests whether systems can answer questions about paragraphs that contain adversarially inserted sentences, which are automatically generated to distract computer systems without changing the correct answer or misleading humans. In this adversarial setting, the accuracy of sixteen published models drops from an average of $75\%$ F1 score to $36\%$; when the adversary is allowed to add ungrammatical sequences of words, average accuracy on four models decreases further to $7\%$. We hope our insights will motivate the development of new models that understand language more precisely.
Bidirectional Attention Flow for Machine Comprehension.Machine comprehension (MC), answering a query about a given context paragraph, requires modeling complex interactions between the context and the query. Recently, attention mechanisms have been successfully extended to MC. Typically these methods use attention to focus on a small portion of the context and summarize it with a fixed-size vector, couple attentions temporally, and/or often form a uni-directional attention. In this paper we introduce the Bi-Directional Attention Flow (BIDAF) network, a multi-stage hierarchical process that represents the context at different levels of granularity and uses bi-directional attention flow mechanism to obtain a query-aware context representation without early summarization. Our experimental evaluations show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art results in Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) and CNN/DailyMail cloze test.
TinyBERT: Distilling BERT for Natural Language Understanding.Language model pre-training, such as BERT, has significantly improved the performances of many natural language processing tasks. However, pre-trained language models are usually computationally expensive, so it is difficult to efficiently execute them on resource-restricted devices. To accelerate inference and reduce model size while maintaining accuracy, we first propose a novel Transformer distillation method that is specially designed for knowledge distillation (KD) of the Transformer-based models. By leveraging this new KD method, the plenty of knowledge encoded in a large teacher BERT can be effectively transferred to a small student Tiny-BERT. Then, we introduce a new two-stage learning framework for TinyBERT, which performs Transformer distillation at both the pretraining and task-specific learning stages. This framework ensures that TinyBERT can capture he general-domain as well as the task-specific knowledge in BERT.   TinyBERT with 4 layers is empirically effective and achieves more than 96.8% the performance of its teacher BERTBASE on GLUE benchmark, while being 7.5x smaller and 9.4x faster on inference. TinyBERT with 4 layers is also significantly better than 4-layer state-of-the-art baselines on BERT distillation, with only about 28% parameters and about 31% inference time of them. Moreover, TinyBERT with 6 layers performs on-par with its teacher BERTBASE.
Beyond Accuracy: Behavioral Testing of NLP models with CheckList.Although measuring held-out accuracy has been the primary approach to evaluate generalization, it often overestimates the performance of NLP models, while alternative approaches for evaluating models either focus on individual tasks or on specific behaviors. Inspired by principles of behavioral testing in software engineering, we introduce CheckList, a task-agnostic methodology for testing NLP models. CheckList includes a matrix of general linguistic capabilities and test types that facilitate comprehensive test ideation, as well as a software tool to generate a large and diverse number of test cases quickly. We illustrate the utility of CheckList with tests for three tasks, identifying critical failures in both commercial and state-of-art models. In a user study, a team responsible for a commercial sentiment analysis model found new and actionable bugs in an extensively tested model. In another user study, NLP practitioners with CheckList created twice as many tests, and found almost three times as many bugs as users without it.
Generating Long Sequences with Sparse Transformers.Transformers are powerful sequence models, but require time and memory that grows quadratically with the sequence length. In this paper we introduce sparse factorizations of the attention matrix which reduce this to $O(n \sqrt{n})$. We also introduce a) a variation on architecture and initialization to train deeper networks, b) the recomputation of attention matrices to save memory, and c) fast attention kernels for training. We call networks with these changes Sparse Transformers, and show they can model sequences tens of thousands of timesteps long using hundreds of layers. We use the same architecture to model images, audio, and text from raw bytes, setting a new state of the art for density modeling of Enwik8, CIFAR-10, and ImageNet-64. We generate unconditional samples that demonstrate global coherence and great diversity, and show it is possible in principle to use self-attention to model sequences of length one million or more.
BioBERT: a pre-trained biomedical language representation model for   biomedical text mining.Biomedical text mining is becoming increasingly important as the number of biomedical documents rapidly grows. With the progress in natural language processing (NLP), extracting valuable information from biomedical literature has gained popularity among researchers, and deep learning has boosted the development of effective biomedical text mining models. However, directly applying the advancements in NLP to biomedical text mining often yields unsatisfactory results due to a word distribution shift from general domain corpora to biomedical corpora. In this article, we investigate how the recently introduced pre-trained language model BERT can be adapted for biomedical corpora. We introduce BioBERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers for Biomedical Text Mining), which is a domain-specific language representation model pre-trained on large-scale biomedical corpora. With almost the same architecture across tasks, BioBERT largely outperforms BERT and previous state-of-the-art models in a variety of biomedical text mining tasks when pre-trained on biomedical corpora. While BERT obtains performance comparable to that of previous state-of-the-art models, BioBERT significantly outperforms them on the following three representative biomedical text mining tasks: biomedical named entity recognition (0.62% F1 score improvement), biomedical relation extraction (2.80% F1 score improvement) and biomedical question answering (12.24% MRR improvement). Our analysis results show that pre-training BERT on biomedical corpora helps it to understand complex biomedical texts. We make the pre-trained weights of BioBERT freely available at https://github.com/naver/biobert-pretrained, and the source code for fine-tuning BioBERT available at https://github.com/dmis-lab/biobert.
Machine Comprehension Using Match-LSTM and Answer Pointer.Machine comprehension of text is an important problem in natural language processing. A recently released dataset, the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD), offers a large number of real questions and their answers created by humans through crowdsourcing. SQuAD provides a challenging testbed for evaluating machine comprehension algorithms, partly because compared with previous datasets, in SQuAD the answers do not come from a small set of candidate answers and they have variable lengths. We propose an end-to-end neural architecture for the task. The architecture is based on match-LSTM, a model we proposed previously for textual entailment, and Pointer Net, a sequence-to-sequence model proposed by Vinyals et al.(2015) to constrain the output tokens to be from the input sequences. We propose two ways of using Pointer Net for our task. Our experiments show that both of our two models substantially outperform the best results obtained by Rajpurkar et al.(2016) using logistic regression and manually crafted features.
CapWAP: Captioning with a Purpose.The traditional image captioning task uses generic reference captions to provide textual information about images. Different user populations, however, will care about different visual aspects of images. In this paper, we propose a new task, Captioning with a Purpose (CapWAP). Our goal is to develop systems that can be tailored to be useful for the information needs of an intended population, rather than merely provide generic information about an image. In this task, we use question-answer (QA) pairs---a natural expression of information need---from users, instead of reference captions, for both training and post-inference evaluation. We show that it is possible to use reinforcement learning to directly optimize for the intended information need, by rewarding outputs that allow a question answering model to provide correct answers to sampled user questions. We convert several visual question answering datasets into CapWAP datasets, and demonstrate that under a variety of scenarios our purposeful captioning system learns to anticipate and fulfill specific information needs better than its generic counterparts, as measured by QA performance on user questions from unseen images, when using the caption alone as context.
Thieves on Sesame Street! Model Extraction of BERT-based APIs.We study the problem of model extraction in natural language processing, in which an adversary with only query access to a victim model attempts to reconstruct a local copy of that model. Assuming that both the adversary and victim model fine-tune a large pretrained language model such as BERT (Devlin et al. 2019), we show that the adversary does not need any real training data to successfully mount the attack. In fact, the attacker need not even use grammatical or semantically meaningful queries: we show that random sequences of words coupled with task-specific heuristics form effective queries for model extraction on a diverse set of NLP tasks, including natural language inference and question answering. Our work thus highlights an exploit only made feasible by the shift towards transfer learning methods within the NLP community: for a query budget of a few hundred dollars, an attacker can extract a model that performs only slightly worse than the victim model. Finally, we study two defense strategies against model extraction---membership classification and API watermarking---which while successful against naive adversaries, are ineffective against more sophisticated ones.
Fusion of Detected Objects in Text for Visual Question Answering.To advance models of multimodal context, we introduce a simple yet powerful neural architecture for data that combines vision and natural language. The "Bounding Boxes in Text Transformer" (B2T2) also leverages referential information binding words to portions of the image in a single unified architecture. B2T2 is highly effective on the Visual Commonsense Reasoning benchmark (https://visualcommonsense.com), achieving a new state-of-the-art with a 25% relative reduction in error rate compared to published baselines and obtaining the best performance to date on the public leaderboard (as of May 22, 2019). A detailed ablation analysis shows that the early integration of the visual features into the text analysis is key to the effectiveness of the new architecture. A reference implementation of our models is provided (https://github.com/google-research/language/tree/master/language/question_answering/b2t2).
A BERT Baseline for the Natural Questions.This technical note describes a new baseline for the Natural Questions. Our model is based on BERT and reduces the gap between the model F1 scores reported in the original dataset paper and the human upper bound by 30% and 50% relative for the long and short answer tasks respectively. This baseline has been submitted to the official NQ leaderboard at ai.google.com/research/NaturalQuestions. Code, preprocessed data and pretrained model are available at https://github.com/google-research/language/tree/master/language/question_answering/bert_joint.
Compositional Semantic Parsing on Semi-Structured Tables.Two important aspects of semantic parsing for question answering are the breadth of the knowledge source and the depth of logical compositionality. While existing work trades off one aspect for another, this paper simultaneously makes progress on both fronts through a new task: answering complex questions on semi-structured tables using question-answer pairs as supervision. The central challenge arises from two compounding factors: the broader domain results in an open-ended set of relations, and the deeper compositionality results in a combinatorial explosion in the space of logical forms. We propose a logical-form driven parsing algorithm guided by strong typing constraints and show that it obtains significant improvements over natural baselines. For evaluation, we created a new dataset of 22,033 complex questions on Wikipedia tables, which is made publicly available.
ktrain: A Low-Code Library for Augmented Machine Learning.We present ktrain, a low-code Python library that makes machine learning more accessible and easier to apply. As a wrapper to TensorFlow and many other libraries (e.g., transformers, scikit-learn, stellargraph), it is designed to make sophisticated, state-of-the-art machine learning models simple to build, train, inspect, and apply by both beginners and experienced practitioners. Featuring modules that support text data (e.g., text classification, sequence tagging, open-domain question-answering), vision data (e.g., image classification), graph data (e.g., node classification, link prediction), and tabular data, ktrain presents a simple unified interface enabling one to quickly solve a wide range of tasks in as little as three or four "commands" or lines of code.
Negated and Misprimed Probes for Pretrained Language Models: Birds Can   Talk, But Cannot Fly.Building on Petroni et al. (2019), we propose two new probing tasks analyzing factual knowledge stored in Pretrained Language Models (PLMs). (1) Negation. We find that PLMs do not distinguish between negated ("Birds cannot [MASK]") and non-negated ("Birds can [MASK]") cloze questions. (2) Mispriming. Inspired by priming methods in human psychology, we add "misprimes" to cloze questions ("Talk? Birds can [MASK]"). We find that PLMs are easily distracted by misprimes. These results suggest that PLMs still have a long way to go to adequately learn human-like factual knowledge.
Neural Attentive Bag-of-Entities Model for Text Classification.This study proposes a Neural Attentive Bag-of-Entities model, which is a neural network model that performs text classification using entities in a knowledge base. Entities provide unambiguous and relevant semantic signals that are beneficial for capturing semantics in texts. We combine simple high-recall entity detection based on a dictionary, to detect entities in a document, with a novel neural attention mechanism that enables the model to focus on a small number of unambiguous and relevant entities. We tested the effectiveness of our model using two standard text classification datasets (i.e., the 20 Newsgroups and R8 datasets) and a popular factoid question answering dataset based on a trivia quiz game. As a result, our model achieved state-of-the-art results on all datasets. The source code of the proposed model is available online at https://github.com/wikipedia2vec/wikipedia2vec.
IRGAN: A Minimax Game for Unifying Generative and Discriminative   Information Retrieval Models.This paper provides a unified account of two schools of thinking in information retrieval modelling: the generative retrieval focusing on predicting relevant documents given a query, and the discriminative retrieval focusing on predicting relevancy given a query-document pair. We propose a game theoretical minimax game to iteratively optimise both models. On one hand, the discriminative model, aiming to mine signals from labelled and unlabelled data, provides guidance to train the generative model towards fitting the underlying relevance distribution over documents given the query. On the other hand, the generative model, acting as an attacker to the current discriminative model, generates difficult examples for the discriminative model in an adversarial way by minimising its discrimination objective. With the competition between these two models, we show that the unified framework takes advantage of both schools of thinking: (i) the generative model learns to fit the relevance distribution over documents via the signals from the discriminative model, and (ii) the discriminative model is able to exploit the unlabelled data selected by the generative model to achieve a better estimation for document ranking. Our experimental results have demonstrated significant performance gains as much as 23.96% on Precision@5 and 15.50% on MAP over strong baselines in a variety of applications including web search, item recommendation, and question answering.
Document Expansion by Query Prediction.One technique to improve the retrieval effectiveness of a search engine is to expand documents with terms that are related or representative of the documents' content.From the perspective of a question answering system, this might comprise questions the document can potentially answer. Following this observation, we propose a simple method that predicts which queries will be issued for a given document and then expands it with those predictions with a vanilla sequence-to-sequence model, trained using datasets consisting of pairs of query and relevant documents. By combining our method with a highly-effective re-ranking component, we achieve the state of the art in two retrieval tasks. In a latency-critical regime, retrieval results alone (without re-ranking) approach the effectiveness of more computationally expensive neural re-rankers but are much faster.
PLATO: Pre-trained Dialogue Generation Model with Discrete Latent   Variable.Pre-training models have been proved effective for a wide range of natural language processing tasks. Inspired by this, we propose a novel dialogue generation pre-training framework to support various kinds of conversations, including chit-chat, knowledge grounded dialogues, and conversational question answering. In this framework, we adopt flexible attention mechanisms to fully leverage the bi-directional context and the uni-directional characteristic of language generation. We also introduce discrete latent variables to tackle the inherent one-to-many mapping problem in response generation. Two reciprocal tasks of response generation and latent act recognition are designed and carried out simultaneously within a shared network. Comprehensive experiments on three publicly available datasets verify the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed framework.
TAPAS: Weakly Supervised Table Parsing via Pre-training.Answering natural language questions over tables is usually seen as a semantic parsing task. To alleviate the collection cost of full logical forms, one popular approach focuses on weak supervision consisting of denotations instead of logical forms. However, training semantic parsers from weak supervision poses difficulties, and in addition, the generated logical forms are only used as an intermediate step prior to retrieving the denotation. In this paper, we present TAPAS, an approach to question answering over tables without generating logical forms. TAPAS trains from weak supervision, and predicts the denotation by selecting table cells and optionally applying a corresponding aggregation operator to such selection. TAPAS extends BERT's architecture to encode tables as input, initializes from an effective joint pre-training of text segments and tables crawled from Wikipedia, and is trained end-to-end. We experiment with three different semantic parsing datasets, and find that TAPAS outperforms or rivals semantic parsing models by improving state-of-the-art accuracy on SQA from 55.1 to 67.2 and performing on par with the state-of-the-art on WIKISQL and WIKITQ, but with a simpler model architecture. We additionally find that transfer learning, which is trivial in our setting, from WIKISQL to WIKITQ, yields 48.7 accuracy, 4.2 points above the state-of-the-art.
SpanBERT: Improving Pre-training by Representing and Predicting Spans.We present SpanBERT, a pre-training method that is designed to better represent and predict spans of text. Our approach extends BERT by (1) masking contiguous random spans, rather than random tokens, and (2) training the span boundary representations to predict the entire content of the masked span, without relying on the individual token representations within it. SpanBERT consistently outperforms BERT and our better-tuned baselines, with substantial gains on span selection tasks such as question answering and coreference resolution. In particular, with the same training data and model size as BERT-large, our single model obtains 94.6% and 88.7% F1 on SQuAD 1.1 and 2.0, respectively. We also achieve a new state of the art on the OntoNotes coreference resolution task (79.6\% F1), strong performance on the TACRED relation extraction benchmark, and even show gains on GLUE.
Learned in Translation: Contextualized Word Vectors.Computer vision has benefited from initializing multiple deep layers with weights pretrained on large supervised training sets like ImageNet. Natural language processing (NLP) typically sees initialization of only the lowest layer of deep models with pretrained word vectors. In this paper, we use a deep LSTM encoder from an attentional sequence-to-sequence model trained for machine translation (MT) to contextualize word vectors. We show that adding these context vectors (CoVe) improves performance over using only unsupervised word and character vectors on a wide variety of common NLP tasks: sentiment analysis (SST, IMDb), question classification (TREC), entailment (SNLI), and question answering (SQuAD). For fine-grained sentiment analysis and entailment, CoVe improves performance of our baseline models to the state of the art.
EasyTransfer -- A Simple and Scalable Deep Transfer Learning Platform   for NLP Applications.The literature has witnessed the success of applying deep Transfer Learning (TL) algorithms to many NLP applications, yet it is not easy to build a simple and scalable TL toolkit for this purpose. To bridge this gap, the EasyTransfer platform is designed to make it easy to develop deep TL algorithms for NLP applications. It is built with rich API abstractions, a scalable architecture and comprehensive deep TL algorithms, to make the development of NLP applications easier. To be specific, the build-in data and model parallelism strategy shows to be 4x faster than the default distribution strategy of Tensorflow. EasyTransfer supports the mainstream pre-trained ModelZoo, including Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) and multi-modality models. It also integrates various SOTA models for mainstream NLP applications in AppZoo, and supports mainstream TL algorithms as well. The toolkit is convenient for users to quickly start model training, evaluation, offline prediction, and online deployment. This system is currently deployed at Alibaba to support a variety of business scenarios, including item recommendation, personalized search, and conversational question answering. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets show that EasyTransfer is suitable for online production with cutting-edge performance. The source code of EasyTransfer is released at Github (https://github.com/alibaba/EasyTransfer).
GQA: A New Dataset for Real-World Visual Reasoning and Compositional   Question Answering.We introduce GQA, a new dataset for real-world visual reasoning and compositional question answering, seeking to address key shortcomings of previous VQA datasets. We have developed a strong and robust question engine that leverages scene graph structures to create 22M diverse reasoning questions, all come with functional programs that represent their semantics. We use the programs to gain tight control over the answer distribution and present a new tunable smoothing technique to mitigate question biases. Accompanying the dataset is a suite of new metrics that evaluate essential qualities such as consistency, grounding and plausibility. An extensive analysis is performed for baselines as well as state-of-the-art models, providing fine-grained results for different question types and topologies. Whereas a blind LSTM obtains mere 42.1%, and strong VQA models achieve 54.1%, human performance tops at 89.3%, offering ample opportunity for new research to explore. We strongly hope GQA will provide an enabling resource for the next generation of models with enhanced robustness, improved consistency, and deeper semantic understanding for images and language.
Iterative Alternating Neural Attention for Machine Reading.We propose a novel neural attention architecture to tackle machine comprehension tasks, such as answering Cloze-style queries with respect to a document. Unlike previous models, we do not collapse the query into a single vector, instead we deploy an iterative alternating attention mechanism that allows a fine-grained exploration of both the query and the document. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in standard machine comprehension benchmarks such as CNN news articles and the Children's Book Test (CBT) dataset.
Gated-Attention Readers for Text Comprehension.In this paper we study the problem of answering cloze-style questions over documents. Our model, the Gated-Attention (GA) Reader, integrates a multi-hop architecture with a novel attention mechanism, which is based on multiplicative interactions between the query embedding and the intermediate states of a recurrent neural network document reader. This enables the reader to build query-specific representations of tokens in the document for accurate answer selection. The GA Reader obtains state-of-the-art results on three benchmarks for this task--the CNN \& Daily Mail news stories and the Who Did What dataset. The effectiveness of multiplicative interaction is demonstrated by an ablation study, and by comparing to alternative compositional operators for implementing the gated-attention. The code is available at https://github.com/bdhingra/ga-reader.
Applying Deep Learning to Answer Selection: A Study and An Open Task.We apply a general deep learning framework to address the non-factoid question answering task. Our approach does not rely on any linguistic tools and can be applied to different languages or domains. Various architectures are presented and compared. We create and release a QA corpus and setup a new QA task in the insurance domain. Experimental results demonstrate superior performance compared to the baseline methods and various technologies give further improvements. For this highly challenging task, the top-1 accuracy can reach up to 65.3% on a test set, which indicates a great potential for practical use.
Learning to Compose Neural Networks for Question Answering.We describe a question answering model that applies to both images and structured knowledge bases. The model uses natural language strings to automatically assemble neural networks from a collection of composable modules. Parameters for these modules are learned jointly with network-assembly parameters via reinforcement learning, with only (world, question, answer) triples as supervision. Our approach, which we term a dynamic neural model network, achieves state-of-the-art results on benchmark datasets in both visual and structured domains.
Cognitive Graph for Multi-Hop Reading Comprehension at Scale.We propose a new CogQA framework for multi-hop question answering in web-scale documents. Inspired by the dual process theory in cognitive science, the framework gradually builds a \textit{cognitive graph} in an iterative process by coordinating an implicit extraction module (System 1) and an explicit reasoning module (System 2). While giving accurate answers, our framework further provides explainable reasoning paths. Specifically, our implementation based on BERT and graph neural network efficiently handles millions of documents for multi-hop reasoning questions in the HotpotQA fullwiki dataset, achieving a winning joint $F_1$ score of 34.9 on the leaderboard, compared to 23.6 of the best competitor.
Portuguese Named Entity Recognition using BERT-CRF.Recent advances in language representation using neural networks have made it viable to transfer the learned internal states of a trained model to downstream natural language processing tasks, such as named entity recognition (NER) and question answering. It has been shown that the leverage of pre-trained language models improves the overall performance on many tasks and is highly beneficial when labeled data is scarce. In this work, we train Portuguese BERT models and employ a BERT-CRF architecture to the NER task on the Portuguese language, combining the transfer capabilities of BERT with the structured predictions of CRF. We explore feature-based and fine-tuning training strategies for the BERT model. Our fine-tuning approach obtains new state-of-the-art results on the HAREM I dataset, improving the F1-score by 1 point on the selective scenario (5 NE classes) and by 4 points on the total scenario (10 NE classes).
Simple and Effective Multi-Paragraph Reading Comprehension.We consider the problem of adapting neural paragraph-level question answering models to the case where entire documents are given as input. Our proposed solution trains models to produce well calibrated confidence scores for their results on individual paragraphs. We sample multiple paragraphs from the documents during training, and use a shared-normalization training objective that encourages the model to produce globally correct output. We combine this method with a state-of-the-art pipeline for training models on document QA data. Experiments demonstrate strong performance on several document QA datasets. Overall, we are able to achieve a score of 71.3 F1 on the web portion of TriviaQA, a large improvement from the 56.7 F1 of the previous best system.
The NarrativeQA Reading Comprehension Challenge.Reading comprehension (RC)---in contrast to information retrieval---requires integrating information and reasoning about events, entities, and their relations across a full document. Question answering is conventionally used to assess RC ability, in both artificial agents and children learning to read. However, existing RC datasets and tasks are dominated by questions that can be solved by selecting answers using superficial information (e.g., local context similarity or global term frequency); they thus fail to test for the essential integrative aspect of RC. To encourage progress on deeper comprehension of language, we present a new dataset and set of tasks in which the reader must answer questions about stories by reading entire books or movie scripts. These tasks are designed so that successfully answering their questions requires understanding the underlying narrative rather than relying on shallow pattern matching or salience. We show that although humans solve the tasks easily, standard RC models struggle on the tasks presented here. We provide an analysis of the dataset and the challenges it presents.
Indirect Supervision for Relation Extraction using Question-Answer Pairs.Automatic relation extraction (RE) for types of interest is of great importance for interpreting massive text corpora in an efficient manner. Traditional RE models have heavily relied on human-annotated corpus for training, which can be costly in generating labeled data and become obstacles when dealing with more relation types. Thus, more RE extraction systems have shifted to be built upon training data automatically acquired by linking to knowledge bases (distant supervision). However, due to the incompleteness of knowledge bases and the context-agnostic labeling, the training data collected via distant supervision (DS) can be very noisy. In recent years, as increasing attention has been brought to tackling question-answering (QA) tasks, user feedback or datasets of such tasks become more accessible. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, ReQuest, to leverage question-answer pairs as an indirect source of supervision for relation extraction, and study how to use such supervision to reduce noise induced from DS. Our model jointly embeds relation mentions, types, QA entity mention pairs and text features in two low-dimensional spaces (RE and QA), where objects with same relation types or semantically similar question-answer pairs have similar representations. Shared features connect these two spaces, carrying clearer semantic knowledge from both sources. ReQuest, then use these learned embeddings to estimate the types of test relation mentions. We formulate a global objective function and adopt a novel margin-based QA loss to reduce noise in DS by exploiting semantic evidence from the QA dataset. Our experimental results achieve an average of 11% improvement in F1 score on two public RE datasets combined with TREC QA dataset.
Knowledge Guided Text Retrieval and Reading for Open Domain Question   Answering.We introduce an approach for open-domain question answering (QA) that retrieves and reads a passage graph, where vertices are passages of text and edges represent relationships that are derived from an external knowledge base or co-occurrence in the same article. Our goals are to boost coverage by using knowledge-guided retrieval to find more relevant passages than text-matching methods, and to improve accuracy by allowing for better knowledge-guided fusion of information across related passages. Our graph retrieval method expands a set of seed keyword-retrieved passages by traversing the graph structure of the knowledge base. Our reader extends a BERT-based architecture and updates passage representations by propagating information from related passages and their relations, instead of reading each passage in isolation. Experiments on three open-domain QA datasets, WebQuestions, Natural Questions and TriviaQA, show improved performance over non-graph baselines by 2-11% absolute. Our approach also matches or exceeds the state-of-the-art in every case, without using an expensive end-to-end training regime.
12-in-1: Multi-Task Vision and Language Representation Learning.Much of vision-and-language research focuses on a small but diverse set of independent tasks and supporting datasets often studied in isolation; however, the visually-grounded language understanding skills required for success at these tasks overlap significantly. In this work, we investigate these relationships between vision-and-language tasks by developing a large-scale, multi-task training regime. Our approach culminates in a single model on 12 datasets from four broad categories of task including visual question answering, caption-based image retrieval, grounding referring expressions, and multi-modal verification. Compared to independently trained single-task models, this represents a reduction from approximately 3 billion parameters to 270 million while simultaneously improving performance by 2.05 points on average across tasks. We use our multi-task framework to perform in-depth analysis of the effect of joint training diverse tasks. Further, we show that finetuning task-specific models from our single multi-task model can lead to further improvements, achieving performance at or above the state-of-the-art.
ViLBERT: Pretraining Task-Agnostic Visiolinguistic Representations for   Vision-and-Language Tasks.We present ViLBERT (short for Vision-and-Language BERT), a model for learning task-agnostic joint representations of image content and natural language. We extend the popular BERT architecture to a multi-modal two-stream model, pro-cessing both visual and textual inputs in separate streams that interact through co-attentional transformer layers. We pretrain our model through two proxy tasks on the large, automatically collected Conceptual Captions dataset and then transfer it to multiple established vision-and-language tasks -- visual question answering, visual commonsense reasoning, referring expressions, and caption-based image retrieval -- by making only minor additions to the base architecture. We observe significant improvements across tasks compared to existing task-specific models -- achieving state-of-the-art on all four tasks. Our work represents a shift away from learning groundings between vision and language only as part of task training and towards treating visual grounding as a pretrainable and transferable capability.
Did the Model Understand the Question?.We analyze state-of-the-art deep learning models for three tasks: question answering on (1) images, (2) tables, and (3) passages of text. Using the notion of \emph{attribution} (word importance), we find that these deep networks often ignore important question terms. Leveraging such behavior, we perturb questions to craft a variety of adversarial examples. Our strongest attacks drop the accuracy of a visual question answering model from $61.1\%$ to $19\%$, and that of a tabular question answering model from $33.5\%$ to $3.3\%$. Additionally, we show how attributions can strengthen attacks proposed by Jia and Liang (2017) on paragraph comprehension models. Our results demonstrate that attributions can augment standard measures of accuracy and empower investigation of model performance. When a model is accurate but for the wrong reasons, attributions can surface erroneous logic in the model that indicates inadequacies in the test data.
Utilizing BERT for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis via Constructing   Auxiliary Sentence.Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA), which aims to identify fine-grained opinion polarity towards a specific aspect, is a challenging subtask of sentiment analysis (SA). In this paper, we construct an auxiliary sentence from the aspect and convert ABSA to a sentence-pair classification task, such as question answering (QA) and natural language inference (NLI). We fine-tune the pre-trained model from BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results on SentiHood and SemEval-2014 Task 4 datasets.
Ask the Right Questions: Active Question Reformulation with   Reinforcement Learning.We frame Question Answering (QA) as a Reinforcement Learning task, an approach that we call Active Question Answering. We propose an agent that sits between the user and a black box QA system and learns to reformulate questions to elicit the best possible answers. The agent probes the system with, potentially many, natural language reformulations of an initial question and aggregates the returned evidence to yield the best answer. The reformulation system is trained end-to-end to maximize answer quality using policy gradient. We evaluate on SearchQA, a dataset of complex questions extracted from Jeopardy!. The agent outperforms a state-of-the-art base model, playing the role of the environment, and other benchmarks. We also analyze the language that the agent has learned while interacting with the question answering system. We find that successful question reformulations look quite different from natural language paraphrases. The agent is able to discover non-trivial reformulation strategies that resemble classic information retrieval techniques such as term re-weighting (tf-idf) and stemming.
SearchQA: A New Q&A Dataset Augmented with Context from a Search Engine.We publicly release a new large-scale dataset, called SearchQA, for machine comprehension, or question-answering. Unlike recently released datasets, such as DeepMind CNN/DailyMail and SQuAD, the proposed SearchQA was constructed to reflect a full pipeline of general question-answering. That is, we start not from an existing article and generate a question-answer pair, but start from an existing question-answer pair, crawled from J! Archive, and augment it with text snippets retrieved by Google. Following this approach, we built SearchQA, which consists of more than 140k question-answer pairs with each pair having 49.6 snippets on average. Each question-answer-context tuple of the SearchQA comes with additional meta-data such as the snippet's URL, which we believe will be valuable resources for future research. We conduct human evaluation as well as test two baseline methods, one simple word selection and the other deep learning based, on the SearchQA. We show that there is a meaningful gap between the human and machine performances. This suggests that the proposed dataset could well serve as a benchmark for question-answering.
Towards Scalable and Reliable Capsule Networks for Challenging NLP   Applications.Obstacles hindering the development of capsule networks for challenging NLP applications include poor scalability to large output spaces and less reliable routing processes. In this paper, we introduce: 1) an agreement score to evaluate the performance of routing processes at instance level; 2) an adaptive optimizer to enhance the reliability of routing; 3) capsule compression and partial routing to improve the scalability of capsule networks. We validate our approach on two NLP tasks, namely: multi-label text classification and question answering. Experimental results show that our approach considerably improves over strong competitors on both tasks. In addition, we gain the best results in low-resource settings with few training instances.
Latent Alignment and Variational Attention.Neural attention has become central to many state-of-the-art models in natural language processing and related domains. Attention networks are an easy-to-train and effective method for softly simulating alignment; however, the approach does not marginalize over latent alignments in a probabilistic sense. This property makes it difficult to compare attention to other alignment approaches, to compose it with probabilistic models, and to perform posterior inference conditioned on observed data. A related latent approach, hard attention, fixes these issues, but is generally harder to train and less accurate. This work considers variational attention networks, alternatives to soft and hard attention for learning latent variable alignment models, with tighter approximation bounds based on amortized variational inference. We further propose methods for reducing the variance of gradients to make these approaches computationally feasible. Experiments show that for machine translation and visual question answering, inefficient exact latent variable models outperform standard neural attention, but these gains go away when using hard attention based training. On the other hand, variational attention retains most of the performance gain but with training speed comparable to neural attention.
Neural Network Models for Paraphrase Identification, Semantic Textual   Similarity, Natural Language Inference, and Question Answering.In this paper, we analyze several neural network designs (and their variations) for sentence pair modeling and compare their performance extensively across eight datasets, including paraphrase identification, semantic textual similarity, natural language inference, and question answering tasks. Although most of these models have claimed state-of-the-art performance, the original papers often reported on only one or two selected datasets. We provide a systematic study and show that (i) encoding contextual information by LSTM and inter-sentence interactions are critical, (ii) Tree-LSTM does not help as much as previously claimed but surprisingly improves performance on Twitter datasets, (iii) the Enhanced Sequential Inference Model is the best so far for larger datasets, while the Pairwise Word Interaction Model achieves the best performance when less data is available. We release our implementations as an open-source toolkit.
Neural Semantic Encoders.We present a memory augmented neural network for natural language understanding: Neural Semantic Encoders. NSE is equipped with a novel memory update rule and has a variable sized encoding memory that evolves over time and maintains the understanding of input sequences through read}, compose and write operations. NSE can also access multiple and shared memories. In this paper, we demonstrated the effectiveness and the flexibility of NSE on five different natural language tasks: natural language inference, question answering, sentence classification, document sentiment analysis and machine translation where NSE achieved state-of-the-art performance when evaluated on publically available benchmarks. For example, our shared-memory model showed an encouraging result on neural machine translation, improving an attention-based baseline by approximately 1.0 BLEU.
WikiReading: A Novel Large-scale Language Understanding Task over   Wikipedia.We present WikiReading, a large-scale natural language understanding task and publicly-available dataset with 18 million instances. The task is to predict textual values from the structured knowledge base Wikidata by reading the text of the corresponding Wikipedia articles. The task contains a rich variety of challenging classification and extraction sub-tasks, making it well-suited for end-to-end models such as deep neural networks (DNNs). We compare various state-of-the-art DNN-based architectures for document classification, information extraction, and question answering. We find that models supporting a rich answer space, such as word or character sequences, perform best. Our best-performing model, a word-level sequence to sequence model with a mechanism to copy out-of-vocabulary words, obtains an accuracy of 71.8%.
The Neuro-Symbolic Concept Learner: Interpreting Scenes, Words, and   Sentences From Natural Supervision.We propose the Neuro-Symbolic Concept Learner (NS-CL), a model that learns visual concepts, words, and semantic parsing of sentences without explicit supervision on any of them; instead, our model learns by simply looking at images and reading paired questions and answers. Our model builds an object-based scene representation and translates sentences into executable, symbolic programs. To bridge the learning of two modules, we use a neuro-symbolic reasoning module that executes these programs on the latent scene representation. Analogical to human concept learning, the perception module learns visual concepts based on the language description of the object being referred to. Meanwhile, the learned visual concepts facilitate learning new words and parsing new sentences. We use curriculum learning to guide the searching over the large compositional space of images and language. Extensive experiments demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of our model on learning visual concepts, word representations, and semantic parsing of sentences. Further, our method allows easy generalization to new object attributes, compositions, language concepts, scenes and questions, and even new program domains. It also empowers applications including visual question answering and bidirectional image-text retrieval.
HotpotQA: A Dataset for Diverse, Explainable Multi-hop Question   Answering.Existing question answering (QA) datasets fail to train QA systems to perform complex reasoning and provide explanations for answers. We introduce HotpotQA, a new dataset with 113k Wikipedia-based question-answer pairs with four key features: (1) the questions require finding and reasoning over multiple supporting documents to answer; (2) the questions are diverse and not constrained to any pre-existing knowledge bases or knowledge schemas; (3) we provide sentence-level supporting facts required for reasoning, allowing QA systems to reason with strong supervision and explain the predictions; (4) we offer a new type of factoid comparison questions to test QA systems' ability to extract relevant facts and perform necessary comparison. We show that HotpotQA is challenging for the latest QA systems, and the supporting facts enable models to improve performance and make explainable predictions.
Deep Modular Co-Attention Networks for Visual Question Answering.Visual Question Answering (VQA) requires a fine-grained and simultaneous understanding of both the visual content of images and the textual content of questions. Therefore, designing an effective `co-attention' model to associate key words in questions with key objects in images is central to VQA performance. So far, most successful attempts at co-attention learning have been achieved by using shallow models, and deep co-attention models show little improvement over their shallow counterparts. In this paper, we propose a deep Modular Co-Attention Network (MCAN) that consists of Modular Co-Attention (MCA) layers cascaded in depth. Each MCA layer models the self-attention of questions and images, as well as the guided-attention of images jointly using a modular composition of two basic attention units. We quantitatively and qualitatively evaluate MCAN on the benchmark VQA-v2 dataset and conduct extensive ablation studies to explore the reasons behind MCAN's effectiveness. Experimental results demonstrate that MCAN significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art. Our best single model delivers 70.63$\%$ overall accuracy on the test-dev set. Code is available at https://github.com/MILVLG/mcan-vqa.
Simple and Effective Text Matching with Richer Alignment Features.In this paper, we present a fast and strong neural approach for general purpose text matching applications. We explore what is sufficient to build a fast and well-performed text matching model and propose to keep three key features available for inter-sequence alignment: original point-wise features, previous aligned features, and contextual features while simplifying all the remaining components. We conduct experiments on four well-studied benchmark datasets across tasks of natural language inference, paraphrase identification and answer selection. The performance of our model is on par with the state-of-the-art on all datasets with much fewer parameters and the inference speed is at least 6 times faster compared with similarly performed ones.
MRQA 2019 Shared Task: Evaluating Generalization in Reading   Comprehension.We present the results of the Machine Reading for Question Answering (MRQA) 2019 shared task on evaluating the generalization capabilities of reading comprehension systems. In this task, we adapted and unified 18 distinct question answering datasets into the same format. Among them, six datasets were made available for training, six datasets were made available for development, and the final six were hidden for final evaluation. Ten teams submitted systems, which explored various ideas including data sampling, multi-task learning, adversarial training and ensembling. The best system achieved an average F1 score of 72.5 on the 12 held-out datasets, 10.7 absolute points higher than our initial baseline based on BERT.
Unified Vision-Language Pre-Training for Image Captioning and VQA.This paper presents a unified Vision-Language Pre-training (VLP) model. The model is unified in that (1) it can be fine-tuned for either vision-language generation (e.g., image captioning) or understanding (e.g., visual question answering) tasks, and (2) it uses a shared multi-layer transformer network for both encoding and decoding, which differs from many existing methods where the encoder and decoder are implemented using separate models. The unified VLP model is pre-trained on a large amount of image-text pairs using the unsupervised learning objectives of two tasks: bidirectional and sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) masked vision-language prediction. The two tasks differ solely in what context the prediction conditions on. This is controlled by utilizing specific self-attention masks for the shared transformer network. To the best of our knowledge, VLP is the first reported model that achieves state-of-the-art results on both vision-language generation and understanding tasks, as disparate as image captioning and visual question answering, across three challenging benchmark datasets: COCO Captions, Flickr30k Captions, and VQA 2.0. The code and the pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/LuoweiZhou/VLP.
FlowQA: Grasping Flow in History for Conversational Machine   Comprehension.Conversational machine comprehension requires the understanding of the conversation history, such as previous question/answer pairs, the document context, and the current question. To enable traditional, single-turn models to encode the history comprehensively, we introduce Flow, a mechanism that can incorporate intermediate representations generated during the process of answering previous questions, through an alternating parallel processing structure. Compared to approaches that concatenate previous questions/answers as input, Flow integrates the latent semantics of the conversation history more deeply. Our model, FlowQA, shows superior performance on two recently proposed conversational challenges (+7.2% F1 on CoQA and +4.0% on QuAC). The effectiveness of Flow also shows in other tasks. By reducing sequential instruction understanding to conversational machine comprehension, FlowQA outperforms the best models on all three domains in SCONE, with +1.8% to +4.4% improvement in accuracy.
Analyzing the Behavior of Visual Question Answering Models.Recently, a number of deep-learning based models have been proposed for the task of Visual Question Answering (VQA). The performance of most models is clustered around 60-70%. In this paper we propose systematic methods to analyze the behavior of these models as a first step towards recognizing their strengths and weaknesses, and identifying the most fruitful directions for progress. We analyze two models, one each from two major classes of VQA models -- with-attention and without-attention and show the similarities and differences in the behavior of these models. We also analyze the winning entry of the VQA Challenge 2016.   Our behavior analysis reveals that despite recent progress, today's VQA models are "myopic" (tend to fail on sufficiently novel instances), often "jump to conclusions" (converge on a predicted answer after 'listening' to just half the question), and are "stubborn" (do not change their answers across images).
Open Domain Question Answering Using Early Fusion of Knowledge Bases and   Text.Open Domain Question Answering (QA) is evolving from complex pipelined systems to end-to-end deep neural networks. Specialized neural models have been developed for extracting answers from either text alone or Knowledge Bases (KBs) alone. In this paper we look at a more practical setting, namely QA over the combination of a KB and entity-linked text, which is appropriate when an incomplete KB is available with a large text corpus. Building on recent advances in graph representation learning we propose a novel model, GRAFT-Net, for extracting answers from a question-specific subgraph containing text and KB entities and relations. We construct a suite of benchmark tasks for this problem, varying the difficulty of questions, the amount of training data, and KB completeness. We show that GRAFT-Net is competitive with the state-of-the-art when tested using either KBs or text alone, and vastly outperforms existing methods in the combined setting. Source code is available at https://github.com/OceanskySun/GraftNet .
Matching Article Pairs with Graphical Decomposition and Convolutions.Identifying the relationship between two articles, e.g., whether two articles published from different sources describe the same breaking news, is critical to many document understanding tasks. Existing approaches for modeling and matching sentence pairs do not perform well in matching longer documents, which embody more complex interactions between the enclosed entities than a sentence does. To model article pairs, we propose the Concept Interaction Graph to represent an article as a graph of concepts. We then match a pair of articles by comparing the sentences that enclose the same concept vertex through a series of encoding techniques, and aggregate the matching signals through a graph convolutional network. To facilitate the evaluation of long article matching, we have created two datasets, each consisting of about 30K pairs of breaking news articles covering diverse topics in the open domain. Extensive evaluations of the proposed methods on the two datasets demonstrate significant improvements over a wide range of state-of-the-art methods for natural language matching.
CLEVR: A Diagnostic Dataset for Compositional Language and Elementary   Visual Reasoning.When building artificial intelligence systems that can reason and answer questions about visual data, we need diagnostic tests to analyze our progress and discover shortcomings. Existing benchmarks for visual question answering can help, but have strong biases that models can exploit to correctly answer questions without reasoning. They also conflate multiple sources of error, making it hard to pinpoint model weaknesses. We present a diagnostic dataset that tests a range of visual reasoning abilities. It contains minimal biases and has detailed annotations describing the kind of reasoning each question requires. We use this dataset to analyze a variety of modern visual reasoning systems, providing novel insights into their abilities and limitations.
Attention-over-Attention Neural Networks for Reading Comprehension.Cloze-style queries are representative problems in reading comprehension. Over the past few months, we have seen much progress that utilizing neural network approach to solve Cloze-style questions. In this paper, we present a novel model called attention-over-attention reader for the Cloze-style reading comprehension task. Our model aims to place another attention mechanism over the document-level attention, and induces "attended attention" for final predictions. Unlike the previous works, our neural network model requires less pre-defined hyper-parameters and uses an elegant architecture for modeling. Experimental results show that the proposed attention-over-attention model significantly outperforms various state-of-the-art systems by a large margin in public datasets, such as CNN and Children's Book Test datasets.
Semantics-aware BERT for Language Understanding.The latest work on language representations carefully integrates contextualized features into language model training, which enables a series of success especially in various machine reading comprehension and natural language inference tasks. However, the existing language representation models including ELMo, GPT and BERT only exploit plain context-sensitive features such as character or word embeddings. They rarely consider incorporating structured semantic information which can provide rich semantics for language representation. To promote natural language understanding, we propose to incorporate explicit contextual semantics from pre-trained semantic role labeling, and introduce an improved language representation model, Semantics-aware BERT (SemBERT), which is capable of explicitly absorbing contextual semantics over a BERT backbone. SemBERT keeps the convenient usability of its BERT precursor in a light fine-tuning way without substantial task-specific modifications. Compared with BERT, semantics-aware BERT is as simple in concept but more powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art or substantially improves results on ten reading comprehension and language inference tasks.
MS MARCO: A Human Generated MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset.We introduce a large scale MAchine Reading COmprehension dataset, which we name MS MARCO. The dataset comprises of 1,010,916 anonymized questions---sampled from Bing's search query logs---each with a human generated answer and 182,669 completely human rewritten generated answers. In addition, the dataset contains 8,841,823 passages---extracted from 3,563,535 web documents retrieved by Bing---that provide the information necessary for curating the natural language answers. A question in the MS MARCO dataset may have multiple answers or no answers at all. Using this dataset, we propose three different tasks with varying levels of difficulty: (i) predict if a question is answerable given a set of context passages, and extract and synthesize the answer as a human would (ii) generate a well-formed answer (if possible) based on the context passages that can be understood with the question and passage context, and finally (iii) rank a set of retrieved passages given a question. The size of the dataset and the fact that the questions are derived from real user search queries distinguishes MS MARCO from other well-known publicly available datasets for machine reading comprehension and question-answering. We believe that the scale and the real-world nature of this dataset makes it attractive for benchmarking machine reading comprehension and question-answering models.
CoQA: A Conversational Question Answering Challenge.Humans gather information by engaging in conversations involving a series of interconnected questions and answers. For machines to assist in information gathering, it is therefore essential to enable them to answer conversational questions. We introduce CoQA, a novel dataset for building Conversational Question Answering systems. Our dataset contains 127k questions with answers, obtained from 8k conversations about text passages from seven diverse domains. The questions are conversational, and the answers are free-form text with their corresponding evidence highlighted in the passage. We analyze CoQA in depth and show that conversational questions have challenging phenomena not present in existing reading comprehension datasets, e.g., coreference and pragmatic reasoning. We evaluate strong conversational and reading comprehension models on CoQA. The best system obtains an F1 score of 65.4%, which is 23.4 points behind human performance (88.8%), indicating there is ample room for improvement. We launch CoQA as a challenge to the community at http://stanfordnlp.github.io/coqa/
Deep Learning Based Text Classification: A Comprehensive Review.Deep learning based models have surpassed classical machine learning based approaches in various text classification tasks, including sentiment analysis, news categorization, question answering, and natural language inference. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of more than 150 deep learning based models for text classification developed in recent years, and discuss their technical contributions, similarities, and strengths. We also provide a summary of more than 40 popular datasets widely used for text classification. Finally, we provide a quantitative analysis of the performance of different deep learning models on popular benchmarks, and discuss future research directions.
Beyond Bilinear: Generalized Multimodal Factorized High-order Pooling   for Visual Question Answering.Visual question answering (VQA) is challenging because it requires a simultaneous understanding of both visual content of images and textual content of questions. To support the VQA task, we need to find good solutions for the following three issues: 1) fine-grained feature representations for both the image and the question; 2) multi-modal feature fusion that is able to capture the complex interactions between multi-modal features; 3) automatic answer prediction that is able to consider the complex correlations between multiple diverse answers for the same question. For fine-grained image and question representations, a `co-attention' mechanism is developed by using a deep neural network architecture to jointly learn the attentions for both the image and the question, which can allow us to reduce the irrelevant features effectively and obtain more discriminative features for image and question representations. For multi-modal feature fusion, a generalized Multi-modal Factorized High-order pooling approach (MFH) is developed to achieve more effective fusion of multi-modal features by exploiting their correlations sufficiently, which can further result in superior VQA performance as compared with the state-of-the-art approaches. For answer prediction, the KL (Kullback-Leibler) divergence is used as the loss function to achieve precise characterization of the complex correlations between multiple diverse answers with the same or similar meaning, which can allow us to achieve faster convergence rate and obtain slightly better accuracy on answer prediction. A deep neural network architecture is designed to integrate all these aforementioned modules into a unified model for achieving superior VQA performance. With an ensemble of our MFH models, we achieve the state-of-the-art performance on the large-scale VQA datasets and win the runner-up in VQA Challenge 2017.
Multi-modal Factorized Bilinear Pooling with Co-Attention Learning for   Visual Question Answering.Visual question answering (VQA) is challenging because it requires a simultaneous understanding of both the visual content of images and the textual content of questions. The approaches used to represent the images and questions in a fine-grained manner and questions and to fuse these multi-modal features play key roles in performance. Bilinear pooling based models have been shown to outperform traditional linear models for VQA, but their high-dimensional representations and high computational complexity may seriously limit their applicability in practice. For multi-modal feature fusion, here we develop a Multi-modal Factorized Bilinear (MFB) pooling approach to efficiently and effectively combine multi-modal features, which results in superior performance for VQA compared with other bilinear pooling approaches. For fine-grained image and question representation, we develop a co-attention mechanism using an end-to-end deep network architecture to jointly learn both the image and question attentions. Combining the proposed MFB approach with co-attention learning in a new network architecture provides a unified model for VQA. Our experimental results demonstrate that the single MFB with co-attention model achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the real-world VQA dataset. Code available at https://github.com/yuzcccc/mfb.
SDNet: Contextualized Attention-based Deep Network for Conversational   Question Answering.Conversational question answering (CQA) is a novel QA task that requires understanding of dialogue context. Different from traditional single-turn machine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks, CQA includes passage comprehension, coreference resolution, and contextual understanding. In this paper, we propose an innovated contextualized attention-based deep neural network, SDNet, to fuse context into traditional MRC models. Our model leverages both inter-attention and self-attention to comprehend conversation context and extract relevant information from passage. Furthermore, we demonstrated a novel method to integrate the latest BERT contextual model. Empirical results show the effectiveness of our model, which sets the new state of the art result in CoQA leaderboard, outperforming the previous best model by 1.6% F1. Our ensemble model further improves the result by 2.7% F1.
InfoBERT: Improving Robustness of Language Models from An Information   Theoretic Perspective.Large-scale language models such as BERT have achieved state-of-the-art performance across a wide range of NLP tasks. Recent studies, however, show that such BERT-based models are vulnerable facing the threats of textual adversarial attacks. We aim to address this problem from an information-theoretic perspective, and propose InfoBERT, a novel learning framework for robust fine-tuning of pre-trained language models. InfoBERT contains two mutual-information-based regularizers for model training: (i) an Information Bottleneck regularizer, which suppresses noisy mutual information between the input and the feature representation; and (ii) a Robust Feature regularizer, which increases the mutual information between local robust features and global features. We provide a principled way to theoretically analyze and improve the robustness of representation learning for language models in both standard and adversarial training. Extensive experiments demonstrate that InfoBERT achieves state-of-the-art robust accuracy over several adversarial datasets on Natural Language Inference (NLI) and Question Answering (QA) tasks.
Stochastic Answer Networks for SQuAD 2.0.This paper presents an extension of the Stochastic Answer Network (SAN), one of the state-of-the-art machine reading comprehension models, to be able to judge whether a question is unanswerable or not. The extended SAN contains two components: a span detector and a binary classifier for judging whether the question is unanswerable, and both components are jointly optimized. Experiments show that SAN achieves the results competitive to the state-of-the-art on Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) 2.0. To facilitate the research on this field, we release our code: https://github.com/kevinduh/san_mrc.
Multi-task Learning with Sample Re-weighting for Machine Reading   Comprehension.We propose a multi-task learning framework to learn a joint Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) model that can be applied to a wide range of MRC tasks in different domains. Inspired by recent ideas of data selection in machine translation, we develop a novel sample re-weighting scheme to assign sample-specific weights to the loss. Empirical study shows that our approach can be applied to many existing MRC models. Combined with contextual representations from pre-trained language models (such as ELMo), we achieve new state-of-the-art results on a set of MRC benchmark datasets. We release our code at https://github.com/xycforgithub/MultiTask-MRC.
Stochastic Answer Networks for Machine Reading Comprehension.We propose a simple yet robust stochastic answer network (SAN) that simulates multi-step reasoning in machine reading comprehension. Compared to previous work such as ReasoNet which used reinforcement learning to determine the number of steps, the unique feature is the use of a kind of stochastic prediction dropout on the answer module (final layer) of the neural network during the training. We show that this simple trick improves robustness and achieves results competitive to the state-of-the-art on the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD), the Adversarial SQuAD, and the Microsoft MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset (MS MARCO).
AllenAct: A Framework for Embodied AI Research.The domain of Embodied AI, in which agents learn to complete tasks through interaction with their environment from egocentric observations, has experienced substantial growth with the advent of deep reinforcement learning and increased interest from the computer vision, NLP, and robotics communities. This growth has been facilitated by the creation of a large number of simulated environments (such as AI2-THOR, Habitat and CARLA), tasks (like point navigation, instruction following, and embodied question answering), and associated leaderboards. While this diversity has been beneficial and organic, it has also fragmented the community: a huge amount of effort is required to do something as simple as taking a model trained in one environment and testing it in another. This discourages good science. We introduce AllenAct, a modular and flexible learning framework designed with a focus on the unique requirements of Embodied AI research. AllenAct provides first-class support for a growing collection of embodied environments, tasks and algorithms, provides reproductions of state-of-the-art models and includes extensive documentation, tutorials, start-up code, and pre-trained models. We hope that our framework makes Embodied AI more accessible and encourages new researchers to join this exciting area. The framework can be accessed at: https://allenact.org/
Modeling Semantics with Gated Graph Neural Networks for Knowledge Base   Question Answering.The most approaches to Knowledge Base Question Answering are based on semantic parsing. In this paper, we address the problem of learning vector representations for complex semantic parses that consist of multiple entities and relations. Previous work largely focused on selecting the correct semantic relations for a question and disregarded the structure of the semantic parse: the connections between entities and the directions of the relations. We propose to use Gated Graph Neural Networks to encode the graph structure of the semantic parse. We show on two data sets that the graph networks outperform all baseline models that do not explicitly model the structure. The error analysis confirms that our approach can successfully process complex semantic parses.
TyDi QA: A Benchmark for Information-Seeking Question Answering in   Typologically Diverse Languages.Confidently making progress on multilingual modeling requires challenging, trustworthy evaluations. We present TyDi QA---a question answering dataset covering 11 typologically diverse languages with 204K question-answer pairs. The languages of TyDi QA are diverse with regard to their typology---the set of linguistic features each language expresses---such that we expect models performing well on this set to generalize across a large number of the world's languages. We present a quantitative analysis of the data quality and example-level qualitative linguistic analyses of observed language phenomena that would not be found in English-only corpora. To provide a realistic information-seeking task and avoid priming effects, questions are written by people who want to know the answer, but don't know the answer yet, and the data is collected directly in each language without the use of translation.
FusionNet: Fusing via Fully-Aware Attention with Application to Machine   Comprehension.This paper introduces a new neural structure called FusionNet, which extends existing attention approaches from three perspectives. First, it puts forward a novel concept of "history of word" to characterize attention information from the lowest word-level embedding up to the highest semantic-level representation. Second, it introduces an improved attention scoring function that better utilizes the "history of word" concept. Third, it proposes a fully-aware multi-level attention mechanism to capture the complete information in one text (such as a question) and exploit it in its counterpart (such as context or passage) layer by layer. We apply FusionNet to the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) and it achieves the first position for both single and ensemble model on the official SQuAD leaderboard at the time of writing (Oct. 4th, 2017). Meanwhile, we verify the generalization of FusionNet with two adversarial SQuAD datasets and it sets up the new state-of-the-art on both datasets: on AddSent, FusionNet increases the best F1 metric from 46.6% to 51.4%; on AddOneSent, FusionNet boosts the best F1 metric from 56.0% to 60.7%.
Ask Your Neurons: A Deep Learning Approach to Visual Question Answering.We address a question answering task on real-world images that is set up as a Visual Turing Test. By combining latest advances in image representation and natural language processing, we propose Ask Your Neurons, a scalable, jointly trained, end-to-end formulation to this problem.   In contrast to previous efforts, we are facing a multi-modal problem where the language output (answer) is conditioned on visual and natural language inputs (image and question). We provide additional insights into the problem by analyzing how much information is contained only in the language part for which we provide a new human baseline. To study human consensus, which is related to the ambiguities inherent in this challenging task, we propose two novel metrics and collect additional answers which extend the original DAQUAR dataset to DAQUAR-Consensus.   Moreover, we also extend our analysis to VQA, a large-scale question answering about images dataset, where we investigate some particular design choices and show the importance of stronger visual models. At the same time, we achieve strong performance of our model that still uses a global image representation. Finally, based on such analysis, we refine our Ask Your Neurons on DAQUAR, which also leads to a better performance on this challenging task.
UnifiedQA: Crossing Format Boundaries With a Single QA System.Question answering (QA) tasks have been posed using a variety of formats, such as extractive span selection, multiple choice, etc. This has led to format-specialized models, and even to an implicit division in the QA community. We argue that such boundaries are artificial and perhaps unnecessary, given the reasoning abilities we seek to teach are not governed by the format. As evidence, we use the latest advances in language modeling to build a single pre-trained QA model, UnifiedQA, that performs surprisingly well across 17 QA datasets spanning 4 diverse formats. UnifiedQA performs on par with 9 different models that were trained on individual datasets themselves. Even when faced with 12 unseen datasets of observed formats, UnifiedQA performs surprisingly well, showing strong generalization from its out-of-format training data. Finally, simply fine-tuning this pre-trained QA model into specialized models results in a new state of the art on 6 datasets, establishing UnifiedQA as a strong starting point for building QA systems.
A Question-Entailment Approach to Question Answering.One of the challenges in large-scale information retrieval (IR) is to develop fine-grained and domain-specific methods to answer natural language questions. Despite the availability of numerous sources and datasets for answer retrieval, Question Answering (QA) remains a challenging problem due to the difficulty of the question understanding and answer extraction tasks. One of the promising tracks investigated in QA is to map new questions to formerly answered questions that are `similar'. In this paper, we propose a novel QA approach based on Recognizing Question Entailment (RQE) and we describe the QA system and resources that we built and evaluated on real medical questions. First, we compare machine learning and deep learning methods for RQE using different kinds of datasets, including textual inference, question similarity and entailment in both the open and clinical domains. Second, we combine IR models with the best RQE method to select entailed questions and rank the retrieved answers. To study the end-to-end QA approach, we built the MedQuAD collection of 47,457 question-answer pairs from trusted medical sources, that we introduce and share in the scope of this paper. Following the evaluation process used in TREC 2017 LiveQA, we find that our approach exceeds the best results of the medical task with a 29.8% increase over the best official score. The evaluation results also support the relevance of question entailment for QA and highlight the effectiveness of combining IR and RQE for future QA efforts. Our findings also show that relying on a restricted set of reliable answer sources can bring a substantial improvement in medical QA.
A Discrete Hard EM Approach for Weakly Supervised Question Answering.Many question answering (QA) tasks only provide weak supervision for how the answer should be computed. For example, TriviaQA answers are entities that can be mentioned multiple times in supporting documents, while DROP answers can be computed by deriving many different equations from numbers in the reference text. In this paper, we show it is possible to convert such tasks into discrete latent variable learning problems with a precomputed, task-specific set of possible "solutions" (e.g. different mentions or equations) that contains one correct option. We then develop a hard EM learning scheme that computes gradients relative to the most likely solution at each update. Despite its simplicity, we show that this approach significantly outperforms previous methods on six QA tasks, including absolute gains of 2--10%, and achieves the state-of-the-art on five of them. Using hard updates instead of maximizing marginal likelihood is key to these results as it encourages the model to find the one correct answer, which we show through detailed qualitative analysis.
Contextual Word Representations: A Contextual Introduction.This introduction aims to tell the story of how we put words into computers. It is part of the story of the field of natural language processing (NLP), a branch of artificial intelligence. It targets a wide audience with a basic understanding of computer programming, but avoids a detailed mathematical treatment, and it does not present any algorithms. It also does not focus on any particular application of NLP such as translation, question answering, or information extraction. The ideas presented here were developed by many researchers over many decades, so the citations are not exhaustive but rather direct the reader to a handful of papers that are, in the author's view, seminal. After reading this document, you should have a general understanding of word vectors (also known as word embeddings): why they exist, what problems they solve, where they come from, how they have changed over time, and what some of the open questions about them are. Readers already familiar with word vectors are advised to skip to Section 5 for the discussion of the most recent advance, contextual word vectors.
Commonsense for Generative Multi-Hop Question Answering Tasks.Reading comprehension QA tasks have seen a recent surge in popularity, yet most works have focused on fact-finding extractive QA. We instead focus on a more challenging multi-hop generative task (NarrativeQA), which requires the model to reason, gather, and synthesize disjoint pieces of information within the context to generate an answer. This type of multi-step reasoning also often requires understanding implicit relations, which humans resolve via external, background commonsense knowledge. We first present a strong generative baseline that uses a multi-attention mechanism to perform multiple hops of reasoning and a pointer-generator decoder to synthesize the answer. This model performs substantially better than previous generative models, and is competitive with current state-of-the-art span prediction models. We next introduce a novel system for selecting grounded multi-hop relational commonsense information from ConceptNet via a pointwise mutual information and term-frequency based scoring function. Finally, we effectively use this extracted commonsense information to fill in gaps of reasoning between context hops, using a selectively-gated attention mechanism. This boosts the model's performance significantly (also verified via human evaluation), establishing a new state-of-the-art for the task. We also show promising initial results of the generalizability of our background knowledge enhancements by demonstrating some improvement on QAngaroo-WikiHop, another multi-hop reasoning dataset.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Multi-step Retriever-Reader Interaction for Scalable Open-domain   Question Answering.This paper introduces a new framework for open-domain question answering in which the retriever and the reader iteratively interact with each other. The framework is agnostic to the architecture of the machine reading model, only requiring access to the token-level hidden representations of the reader. The retriever uses fast nearest neighbor search to scale to corpora containing millions of paragraphs. A gated recurrent unit updates the query at each step conditioned on the state of the reader and the reformulated query is used to re-rank the paragraphs by the retriever. We conduct analysis and show that iterative interaction helps in retrieving informative paragraphs from the corpus. Finally, we show that our multi-step-reasoning framework brings consistent improvement when applied to two widely used reader architectures DrQA and BiDAF on various large open-domain datasets --- TriviaQA-unfiltered, QuasarT, SearchQA, and SQuAD-Open.
Deep Relevance Ranking Using Enhanced Document-Query Interactions.We explore several new models for document relevance ranking, building upon the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM) of Guo et al. (2016). Unlike DRMM, which uses context-insensitive encodings of terms and query-document term interactions, we inject rich context-sensitive encodings throughout our models, inspired by PACRR's (Hui et al., 2017) convolutional n-gram matching features, but extended in several ways including multiple views of query and document inputs. We test our models on datasets from the BIOASQ question answering challenge (Tsatsaronis et al., 2015) and TREC ROBUST 2004 (Voorhees, 2005), showing they outperform BM25-based baselines, DRMM, and PACRR.
End-to-End Instance Segmentation with Recurrent Attention.While convolutional neural networks have gained impressive success recently in solving structured prediction problems such as semantic segmentation, it remains a challenge to differentiate individual object instances in the scene. Instance segmentation is very important in a variety of applications, such as autonomous driving, image captioning, and visual question answering. Techniques that combine large graphical models with low-level vision have been proposed to address this problem; however, we propose an end-to-end recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture with an attention mechanism to model a human-like counting process, and produce detailed instance segmentations. The network is jointly trained to sequentially produce regions of interest as well as a dominant object segmentation within each region. The proposed model achieves competitive results on the CVPPP, KITTI, and Cityscapes datasets.
Text Understanding with the Attention Sum Reader Network.Several large cloze-style context-question-answer datasets have been introduced recently: the CNN and Daily Mail news data and the Children's Book Test. Thanks to the size of these datasets, the associated text comprehension task is well suited for deep-learning techniques that currently seem to outperform all alternative approaches. We present a new, simple model that uses attention to directly pick the answer from the context as opposed to computing the answer using a blended representation of words in the document as is usual in similar models. This makes the model particularly suitable for question-answering problems where the answer is a single word from the document. Ensemble of our models sets new state of the art on all evaluated datasets.
Simple Applications of BERT for Ad Hoc Document Retrieval.Following recent successes in applying BERT to question answering, we explore simple applications to ad hoc document retrieval. This required confronting the challenge posed by documents that are typically longer than the length of input BERT was designed to handle. We address this issue by applying inference on sentences individually, and then aggregating sentence scores to produce document scores. Experiments on TREC microblog and newswire test collections show that our approach is simple yet effective, as we report the highest average precision on these datasets by neural approaches that we are aware of.
CNM: An Interpretable Complex-valued Network for Matching.This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
A Joint Sequence Fusion Model for Video Question Answering and Retrieval.We present an approach named JSFusion (Joint Sequence Fusion) that can measure semantic similarity between any pairs of multimodal sequence data (e.g. a video clip and a language sentence). Our multimodal matching network consists of two key components. First, the Joint Semantic Tensor composes a dense pairwise representation of two sequence data into a 3D tensor. Then, the Convolutional Hierarchical Decoder computes their similarity score by discovering hidden hierarchical matches between the two sequence modalities. Both modules leverage hierarchical attention mechanisms that learn to promote well-matched representation patterns while prune out misaligned ones in a bottom-up manner. Although the JSFusion is a universal model to be applicable to any multimodal sequence data, this work focuses on video-language tasks including multimodal retrieval and video QA. We evaluate the JSFusion model in three retrieval and VQA tasks in LSMDC, for which our model achieves the best performance reported so far. We also perform multiple-choice and movie retrieval tasks for the MSR-VTT dataset, on which our approach outperforms many state-of-the-art methods.
Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic   Parameter Prediction.We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
ProphetNet: Predicting Future N-gram for Sequence-to-Sequence   Pre-training.This paper presents a new sequence-to-sequence pre-training model called ProphetNet, which introduces a novel self-supervised objective named future n-gram prediction and the proposed n-stream self-attention mechanism. Instead of optimizing one-step-ahead prediction in the traditional sequence-to-sequence model, the ProphetNet is optimized by n-step ahead prediction that predicts the next n tokens simultaneously based on previous context tokens at each time step. The future n-gram prediction explicitly encourages the model to plan for the future tokens and prevent overfitting on strong local correlations. We pre-train ProphetNet using a base scale dataset (16GB) and a large-scale dataset (160GB), respectively. Then we conduct experiments on CNN/DailyMail, Gigaword, and SQuAD 1.1 benchmarks for abstractive summarization and question generation tasks. Experimental results show that ProphetNet achieves new state-of-the-art results on all these datasets compared to the models using the same scale pre-training corpus.
Synthetic Data Augmentation for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Question   Answering.Coupled with the availability of large scale datasets, deep learning architectures have enabled rapid progress on the Question Answering task. However, most of those datasets are in English, and the performances of state-of-the-art multilingual models are significantly lower when evaluated on non-English data. Due to high data collection costs, it is not realistic to obtain annotated data for each language one desires to support.   We propose a method to improve the Cross-lingual Question Answering performance without requiring additional annotated data, leveraging Question Generation models to produce synthetic samples in a cross-lingual fashion. We show that the proposed method allows to significantly outperform the baselines trained on English data only. We report a new state-of-the-art on four multilingual datasets: MLQA, XQuAD, SQuAD-it and PIAF (fr).
UniLMv2: Pseudo-Masked Language Models for Unified Language Model   Pre-Training.We propose to pre-train a unified language model for both autoencoding and partially autoregressive language modeling tasks using a novel training procedure, referred to as a pseudo-masked language model (PMLM). Given an input text with masked tokens, we rely on conventional masks to learn inter-relations between corrupted tokens and context via autoencoding, and pseudo masks to learn intra-relations between masked spans via partially autoregressive modeling. With well-designed position embeddings and self-attention masks, the context encodings are reused to avoid redundant computation. Moreover, conventional masks used for autoencoding provide global masking information, so that all the position embeddings are accessible in partially autoregressive language modeling. In addition, the two tasks pre-train a unified language model as a bidirectional encoder and a sequence-to-sequence decoder, respectively. Our experiments show that the unified language models pre-trained using PMLM achieve new state-of-the-art results on a wide range of natural language understanding and generation tasks across several widely used benchmarks.
Unified Language Model Pre-training for Natural Language Understanding   and Generation.This paper presents a new Unified pre-trained Language Model (UniLM) that can be fine-tuned for both natural language understanding and generation tasks. The model is pre-trained using three types of language modeling tasks: unidirectional, bidirectional, and sequence-to-sequence prediction. The unified modeling is achieved by employing a shared Transformer network and utilizing specific self-attention masks to control what context the prediction conditions on. UniLM compares favorably with BERT on the GLUE benchmark, and the SQuAD 2.0 and CoQA question answering tasks. Moreover, UniLM achieves new state-of-the-art results on five natural language generation datasets, including improving the CNN/DailyMail abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 40.51 (2.04 absolute improvement), the Gigaword abstractive summarization ROUGE-L to 35.75 (0.86 absolute improvement), the CoQA generative question answering F1 score to 82.5 (37.1 absolute improvement), the SQuAD question generation BLEU-4 to 22.12 (3.75 absolute improvement), and the DSTC7 document-grounded dialog response generation NIST-4 to 2.67 (human performance is 2.65). The code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/microsoft/unilm.
Learning to Ask: Neural Question Generation for Reading Comprehension.We study automatic question generation for sentences from text passages in reading comprehension. We introduce an attention-based sequence learning model for the task and investigate the effect of encoding sentence- vs. paragraph-level information. In contrast to all previous work, our model does not rely on hand-crafted rules or a sophisticated NLP pipeline; it is instead trainable end-to-end via sequence-to-sequence learning. Automatic evaluation results show that our system significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art rule-based system. In human evaluations, questions generated by our system are also rated as being more natural (i.e., grammaticality, fluency) and as more difficult to answer (in terms of syntactic and lexical divergence from the original text and reasoning needed to answer).
Plan, Attend, Generate: Planning for Sequence-to-Sequence Models.We investigate the integration of a planning mechanism into sequence-to-sequence models using attention. We develop a model which can plan ahead in the future when it computes its alignments between input and output sequences, constructing a matrix of proposed future alignments and a commitment vector that governs whether to follow or recompute the plan. This mechanism is inspired by the recently proposed strategic attentive reader and writer (STRAW) model for Reinforcement Learning. Our proposed model is end-to-end trainable using primarily differentiable operations. We show that it outperforms a strong baseline on character-level translation tasks from WMT'15, the algorithmic task of finding Eulerian circuits of graphs, and question generation from the text. Our analysis demonstrates that the model computes qualitatively intuitive alignments, converges faster than the baselines, and achieves superior performance with fewer parameters.
Neural Question Generation from Text: A Preliminary Study.Automatic question generation aims to generate questions from a text passage where the generated questions can be answered by certain sub-spans of the given passage. Traditional methods mainly use rigid heuristic rules to transform a sentence into related questions. In this work, we propose to apply the neural encoder-decoder model to generate meaningful and diverse questions from natural language sentences. The encoder reads the input text and the answer position, to produce an answer-aware input representation, which is fed to the decoder to generate an answer focused question. We conduct a preliminary study on neural question generation from text with the SQuAD dataset, and the experiment results show that our method can produce fluent and diverse questions.
Cross-Lingual Natural Language Generation via Pre-Training.In this work we focus on transferring supervision signals of natural language generation (NLG) tasks between multiple languages. We propose to pretrain the encoder and the decoder of a sequence-to-sequence model under both monolingual and cross-lingual settings. The pre-training objective encourages the model to represent different languages in the shared space, so that we can conduct zero-shot cross-lingual transfer. After the pre-training procedure, we use monolingual data to fine-tune the pre-trained model on downstream NLG tasks. Then the sequence-to-sequence model trained in a single language can be directly evaluated beyond that language (i.e., accepting multi-lingual input and producing multi-lingual output). Experimental results on question generation and abstractive summarization show that our model outperforms the machine-translation-based pipeline methods for zero-shot cross-lingual generation. Moreover, cross-lingual transfer improves NLG performance of low-resource languages by leveraging rich-resource language data. Our implementation and data are available at https://github.com/CZWin32768/xnlg.
Exploring Models and Data for Image Question Answering.This work aims to address the problem of image-based question-answering (QA) with new models and datasets. In our work, we propose to use neural networks and visual semantic embeddings, without intermediate stages such as object detection and image segmentation, to predict answers to simple questions about images. Our model performs 1.8 times better than the only published results on an existing image QA dataset. We also present a question generation algorithm that converts image descriptions, which are widely available, into QA form. We used this algorithm to produce an order-of-magnitude larger dataset, with more evenly distributed answers. A suite of baseline results on this new dataset are also presented.
Learning to Ask Questions in Open-domain Conversational Systems with   Typed Decoders.Asking good questions in large-scale, open-domain conversational systems is quite significant yet rather untouched. This task, substantially different from traditional question generation, requires to question not only with various patterns but also on diverse and relevant topics. We observe that a good question is a natural composition of {\it interrogatives}, {\it topic words}, and {\it ordinary words}. Interrogatives lexicalize the pattern of questioning, topic words address the key information for topic transition in dialogue, and ordinary words play syntactical and grammatical roles in making a natural sentence. We devise two typed decoders (\textit{soft typed decoder} and \textit{hard typed decoder}) in which a type distribution over the three types is estimated and used to modulate the final generation distribution. Extensive experiments show that the typed decoders outperform state-of-the-art baselines and can generate more meaningful questions.
CliniQG4QA: Generating Diverse Questions for Domain Adaptation of   Clinical Question Answering.Clinical question answering (QA) aims to automatically answer questions from medical professionals based on clinical texts. Studies show that neural QA models trained on one corpus may not generalize well to new clinical texts from a different institute or a different patient group, where large-scale QA pairs are not readily available for retraining. To address this challenge, we propose a simple yet effective framework, CliniQG4QA, which leverages question generation (QG) to synthesize QA pairs on new clinical contexts and boosts QA models without requiring manual annotations. In order to generate diverse types of questions that are essential for training QA models, we further introduce a seq2seq-based question phrase prediction (QPP) module that can be used together with most existing QG models to diversify their generation. Our comprehensive experiment results show that the QA corpus generated by our framework is helpful to improve QA models on the new contexts (up to 8% absolute gain in terms of Exact Match), and that the QPP module plays a crucial role in achieving the gain.
Addressing Semantic Drift in Question Generation for Semi-Supervised   Question Answering.Text-based Question Generation (QG) aims at generating natural and relevant questions that can be answered by a given answer in some context. Existing QG models suffer from a "semantic drift" problem, i.e., the semantics of the model-generated question drifts away from the given context and answer. In this paper, we first propose two semantics-enhanced rewards obtained from downstream question paraphrasing and question answering tasks to regularize the QG model to generate semantically valid questions. Second, since the traditional evaluation metrics (e.g., BLEU) often fall short in evaluating the quality of generated questions, we propose a QA-based evaluation method which measures the QG model's ability to mimic human annotators in generating QA training data. Experiments show that our method achieves the new state-of-the-art performance w.r.t. traditional metrics, and also performs best on our QA-based evaluation metrics. Further, we investigate how to use our QG model to augment QA datasets and enable semi-supervised QA. We propose two ways to generate synthetic QA pairs: generate new questions from existing articles or collect QA pairs from new articles. We also propose two empirically effective strategies, a data filter and mixing mini-batch training, to properly use the QG-generated data for QA. Experiments show that our method improves over both BiDAF and BERT QA baselines, even without introducing new articles.
Interconnected Question Generation with Coreference Alignment and   Conversation Flow Modeling.We study the problem of generating interconnected questions in question-answering style conversations. Compared with previous works which generate questions based on a single sentence (or paragraph), this setting is different in two major aspects: (1) Questions are highly conversational. Almost half of them refer back to conversation history using coreferences. (2) In a coherent conversation, questions have smooth transitions between turns. We propose an end-to-end neural model with coreference alignment and conversation flow modeling. The coreference alignment modeling explicitly aligns coreferent mentions in conversation history with corresponding pronominal references in generated questions, which makes generated questions interconnected to conversation history. The conversation flow modeling builds a coherent conversation by starting questioning on the first few sentences in a text passage and smoothly shifting the focus to later parts. Extensive experiments show that our system outperforms several baselines and can generate highly conversational questions. The code implementation is released at https://github.com/Evan-Gao/conversational-QG.
Natural Question Generation with Reinforcement Learning Based   Graph-to-Sequence Model.Natural question generation (QG) aims to generate questions from a passage and an answer. In this paper, we propose a novel reinforcement learning (RL) based graph-to-sequence (Graph2Seq) model for QG. Our model consists of a Graph2Seq generator where a novel Bidirectional Gated Graph Neural Network is proposed to embed the passage, and a hybrid evaluator with a mixed objective combining both cross-entropy and RL losses to ensure the generation of syntactically and semantically valid text. The proposed model outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods by a large margin on the SQuAD dataset.
Reinforcement Learning Based Graph-to-Sequence Model for Natural   Question Generation.Natural question generation (QG) aims to generate questions from a passage and an answer. Previous works on QG either (i) ignore the rich structure information hidden in text, (ii) solely rely on cross-entropy loss that leads to issues like exposure bias and inconsistency between train/test measurement, or (iii) fail to fully exploit the answer information. To address these limitations, in this paper, we propose a reinforcement learning (RL) based graph-to-sequence (Graph2Seq) model for QG. Our model consists of a Graph2Seq generator with a novel Bidirectional Gated Graph Neural Network based encoder to embed the passage, and a hybrid evaluator with a mixed objective combining both cross-entropy and RL losses to ensure the generation of syntactically and semantically valid text. We also introduce an effective Deep Alignment Network for incorporating the answer information into the passage at both the word and contextual levels. Our model is end-to-end trainable and achieves new state-of-the-art scores, outperforming existing methods by a significant margin on the standard SQuAD benchmark.
Zero-Shot Question Generation from Knowledge Graphs for Unseen   Predicates and Entity Types.We present a neural model for question generation from knowledge base triples in a "Zero-Shot" setup, that is generating questions for triples containing predicates, subject types or object types that were not seen at training time. Our model leverages triples occurrences in the natural language corpus in an encoder-decoder architecture, paired with an original part-of-speech copy action mechanism to generate questions. Benchmark and human evaluation show that our model sets a new state-of-the-art for zero-shot QG.
Harvesting Paragraph-Level Question-Answer Pairs from Wikipedia.We study the task of generating from Wikipedia articles question-answer pairs that cover content beyond a single sentence. We propose a neural network approach that incorporates coreference knowledge via a novel gating mechanism. Compared to models that only take into account sentence-level information (Heilman and Smith, 2010; Du et al., 2017; Zhou et al., 2017), we find that the linguistic knowledge introduced by the coreference representation aids question generation significantly, producing models that outperform the current state-of-the-art. We apply our system (composed of an answer span extraction system and the passage-level QG system) to the 10,000 top-ranking Wikipedia articles and create a corpus of over one million question-answer pairs. We also provide a qualitative analysis for this large-scale generated corpus from Wikipedia.
Asking Questions the Human Way: Scalable Question-Answer Generation from   Text Corpus.The ability to ask questions is important in both human and machine intelligence. Learning to ask questions helps knowledge acquisition, improves question-answering and machine reading comprehension tasks, and helps a chatbot to keep the conversation flowing with a human. Existing question generation models are ineffective at generating a large amount of high-quality question-answer pairs from unstructured text, since given an answer and an input passage, question generation is inherently a one-to-many mapping. In this paper, we propose Answer-Clue-Style-aware Question Generation (ACS-QG), which aims at automatically generating high-quality and diverse question-answer pairs from unlabeled text corpus at scale by imitating the way a human asks questions. Our system consists of: i) an information extractor, which samples from the text multiple types of assistive information to guide question generation; ii) neural question generators, which generate diverse and controllable questions, leveraging the extracted assistive information; and iii) a neural quality controller, which removes low-quality generated data based on text entailment. We compare our question generation models with existing approaches and resort to voluntary human evaluation to assess the quality of the generated question-answer pairs. The evaluation results suggest that our system dramatically outperforms state-of-the-art neural question generation models in terms of the generation quality, while being scalable in the meantime. With models trained on a relatively smaller amount of data, we can generate 2.8 million quality-assured question-answer pairs from a million sentences found in Wikipedia.
Reinforced Dynamic Reasoning for Conversational Question Generation.This paper investigates a new task named Conversational Question Generation (CQG) which is to generate a question based on a passage and a conversation history (i.e., previous turns of question-answer pairs). CQG is a crucial task for developing intelligent agents that can drive question-answering style conversations or test user understanding of a given passage. Towards that end, we propose a new approach named Reinforced Dynamic Reasoning (ReDR) network, which is based on the general encoder-decoder framework but incorporates a reasoning procedure in a dynamic manner to better understand what has been asked and what to ask next about the passage. To encourage producing meaningful questions, we leverage a popular question answering (QA) model to provide feedback and fine-tune the question generator using a reinforcement learning mechanism. Empirical results on the recently released CoQA dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in comparison with various baselines and model variants. Moreover, to show the applicability of our method, we also apply it to create multi-turn question-answering conversations for passages in SQuAD.
Let's Ask Again: Refine Network for Automatic Question Generation.In this work, we focus on the task of Automatic Question Generation (AQG) where given a passage and an answer the task is to generate the corresponding question. It is desired that the generated question should be (i) grammatically correct (ii) answerable from the passage and (iii) specific to the given answer. An analysis of existing AQG models shows that they produce questions which do not adhere to one or more of {the above-mentioned qualities}. In particular, the generated questions look like an incomplete draft of the desired question with a clear scope for refinement. {To alleviate this shortcoming}, we propose a method which tries to mimic the human process of generating questions by first creating an initial draft and then refining it. More specifically, we propose Refine Network (RefNet) which contains two decoders. The second decoder uses a dual attention network which pays attention to both (i) the original passage and (ii) the question (initial draft) generated by the first decoder. In effect, it refines the question generated by the first decoder, thereby making it more correct and complete. We evaluate RefNet on three datasets, \textit{viz.}, SQuAD, HOTPOT-QA, and DROP, and show that it outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods by 7-16\% on all of these datasets. Lastly, we show that we can improve the quality of the second decoder on specific metrics, such as, fluency and answerability by explicitly rewarding revisions that improve on the corresponding metric during training. The code has been made publicly available \footnote{https://github.com/PrekshaNema25/RefNet-QG}
Towards a Better Metric for Evaluating Question Generation Systems.There has always been criticism for using $n$-gram based similarity metrics, such as BLEU, NIST, etc, for evaluating the performance of NLG systems. However, these metrics continue to remain popular and are recently being used for evaluating the performance of systems which automatically generate questions from documents, knowledge graphs, images, etc. Given the rising interest in such automatic question generation (AQG) systems, it is important to objectively examine whether these metrics are suitable for this task. In particular, it is important to verify whether such metrics used for evaluating AQG systems focus on answerability of the generated question by preferring questions which contain all relevant information such as question type (Wh-types), entities, relations, etc. In this work, we show that current automatic evaluation metrics based on $n$-gram similarity do not always correlate well with human judgments about answerability of a question. To alleviate this problem and as a first step towards better evaluation metrics for AQG, we introduce a scoring function to capture answerability and show that when this scoring function is integrated with existing metrics, they correlate significantly better with human judgments. The scripts and data developed as a part of this work are made publicly available at https://github.com/PrekshaNema25/Answerability-Metric
Discern: Discourse-Aware Entailment Reasoning Network for Conversational   Machine Reading.Document interpretation and dialog understanding are the two major challenges for conversational machine reading. In this work, we propose Discern, a discourse-aware entailment reasoning network to strengthen the connection and enhance the understanding for both document and dialog. Specifically, we split the document into clause-like elementary discourse units (EDU) using a pre-trained discourse segmentation model, and we train our model in a weakly-supervised manner to predict whether each EDU is entailed by the user feedback in a conversation. Based on the learned EDU and entailment representations, we either reply to the user our final decision "yes/no/irrelevant" of the initial question, or generate a follow-up question to inquiry more information. Our experiments on the ShARC benchmark (blind, held-out test set) show that Discern achieves state-of-the-art results of 78.3% macro-averaged accuracy on decision making and 64.0 BLEU1 on follow-up question generation. Code and models are released at https://github.com/Yifan-Gao/Discern.
Can questions summarize a corpus? Using question generation for   characterizing COVID-19 research.What are the latent questions on some textual data? In this work, we investigate using question generation models for exploring a collection of documents. Our method, dubbed corpus2question, consists of applying a pre-trained question generation model over a corpus and aggregating the resulting questions by frequency and time. This technique is an alternative to methods such as topic modelling and word cloud for summarizing large amounts of textual data. Results show that applying corpus2question on a corpus of scientific articles related to COVID-19 yields relevant questions about the topic. The most frequent questions are "what is covid 19" and "what is the treatment for covid". Among the 1000 most frequent questions are "what is the threshold for herd immunity" and "what is the role of ace2 in viral entry". We show that the proposed method generated similar questions for 13 of the 27 expert-made questions from the CovidQA question answering dataset.   The code to reproduce our experiments and the generated questions are available at: https://github.com/unicamp-dl/corpus2question
Tell Me How to Ask Again: Question Data Augmentation with Controllable   Rewriting in Continuous Space.In this paper, we propose a novel data augmentation method, referred to as Controllable Rewriting based Question Data Augmentation (CRQDA), for machine reading comprehension (MRC), question generation, and question-answering natural language inference tasks. We treat the question data augmentation task as a constrained question rewriting problem to generate context-relevant, high-quality, and diverse question data samples. CRQDA utilizes a Transformer autoencoder to map the original discrete question into a continuous embedding space. It then uses a pre-trained MRC model to revise the question representation iteratively with gradient-based optimization. Finally, the revised question representations are mapped back into the discrete space, which serve as additional question data. Comprehensive experiments on SQuAD 2.0, SQuAD 1.1 question generation, and QNLI tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of CRQDA
Multimodal Differential Network for Visual Question Generation.Generating natural questions from an image is a semantic task that requires using visual and language modality to learn multimodal representations. Images can have multiple visual and language contexts that are relevant for generating questions namely places, captions, and tags. In this paper, we propose the use of exemplars for obtaining the relevant context. We obtain this by using a Multimodal Differential Network to produce natural and engaging questions. The generated questions show a remarkable similarity to the natural questions as validated by a human study. Further, we observe that the proposed approach substantially improves over state-of-the-art benchmarks on the quantitative metrics (BLEU, METEOR, ROUGE, and CIDEr).
R2DE: a NLP approach to estimating IRT parameters of newly generated   questions.The main objective of exams consists in performing an assessment of students' expertise on a specific subject. Such expertise, also referred to as skill or knowledge level, can then be leveraged in different ways (e.g., to assign a grade to the students, to understand whether a student might need some support, etc.). Similarly, the questions appearing in the exams have to be assessed in some way before being used to evaluate students. Standard approaches to questions' assessment are either subjective (e.g., assessment by human experts) or introduce a long delay in the process of question generation (e.g., pretesting with real students). In this work we introduce R2DE (which is a Regressor for Difficulty and Discrimination Estimation), a model capable of assessing newly generated multiple-choice questions by looking at the text of the question and the text of the possible choices. In particular, it can estimate the difficulty and the discrimination of each question, as they are defined in Item Response Theory. We also present the results of extensive experiments we carried out on a real world large scale dataset coming from an e-learning platform, showing that our model can be used to perform an initial assessment of newly created questions and ease some of the problems that arise in question generation.
Knowledge-enriched, Type-constrained and Grammar-guided Question   Generation over Knowledge Bases.Question generation over knowledge bases (KBQG) aims at generating natural-language questions about a subgraph, i.e. a set of (connected) triples. Two main challenges still face the current crop of encoder-decoder-based methods, especially on small subgraphs: (1) low diversity and poor fluency due to the limited information contained in the subgraphs, and (2) semantic drift due to the decoder's oblivion of the semantics of the answer entity. We propose an innovative knowledge-enriched, type-constrained and grammar-guided KBQG model, named KTG, to addresses the above challenges. In our model, the encoder is equipped with auxiliary information from the KB, and the decoder is constrained with word types during QG. Specifically, entity domain and description, as well as relation hierarchy information are considered to construct question contexts, while a conditional copy mechanism is incorporated to modulate question semantics according to current word types. Besides, a novel reward function featuring grammatical similarity is designed to improve both generative richness and syntactic correctness via reinforcement learning. Extensive experiments show that our proposed model outperforms existing methods by a significant margin on two widely-used benchmark datasets SimpleQuestion and PathQuestion.
EQG-RACE: Examination-Type Question Generation.Question Generation (QG) is an essential component of the automatic intelligent tutoring systems, which aims to generate high-quality questions for facilitating the reading practice and assessments. However, existing QG technologies encounter several key issues concerning the biased and unnatural language sources of datasets which are mainly obtained from the Web (e.g. SQuAD). In this paper, we propose an innovative Examination-type Question Generation approach (EQG-RACE) to generate exam-like questions based on a dataset extracted from RACE. Two main strategies are employed in EQG-RACE for dealing with discrete answer information and reasoning among long contexts. A Rough Answer and Key Sentence Tagging scheme is utilized to enhance the representations of input. An Answer-guided Graph Convolutional Network (AG-GCN) is designed to capture structure information in revealing the inter-sentences and intra-sentence relations. Experimental results show a state-of-the-art performance of EQG-RACE, which is apparently superior to the baselines. In addition, our work has established a new QG prototype with a reshaped dataset and QG method, which provides an important benchmark for related research in future work. We will make our data and code publicly available for further research.
Answer-Driven Visual State Estimator for Goal-Oriented Visual Dialogue.A goal-oriented visual dialogue involves multi-turn interactions between two agents, Questioner and Oracle. During which, the answer given by Oracle is of great significance, as it provides golden response to what Questioner concerns. Based on the answer, Questioner updates its belief on target visual content and further raises another question. Notably, different answers drive into different visual beliefs and future questions. However, existing methods always indiscriminately encode answers after much longer questions, resulting in a weak utilization of answers. In this paper, we propose an Answer-Driven Visual State Estimator (ADVSE) to impose the effects of different answers on visual states. First, we propose an Answer-Driven Focusing Attention (ADFA) to capture the answer-driven effect on visual attention by sharpening question-related attention and adjusting it by answer-based logical operation at each turn. Then based on the focusing attention, we get the visual state estimation by Conditional Visual Information Fusion (CVIF), where overall information and difference information are fused conditioning on the question-answer state. We evaluate the proposed ADVSE to both question generator and guesser tasks on the large-scale GuessWhat?! dataset and achieve the state-of-the-art performances on both tasks. The qualitative results indicate that the ADVSE boosts the agent to generate highly efficient questions and obtains reliable visual attentions during the reasonable question generation and guess processes.
Evaluating Factuality in Generation with Dependency-level Entailment.Despite significant progress in text generation models, a serious limitation is their tendency to produce text that is factually inconsistent with information in the input. Recent work has studied whether textual entailment systems can be used to identify factual errors; however, these sentence-level entailment models are trained to solve a different problem than generation filtering and they do not localize which part of a generation is non-factual. In this paper, we propose a new formulation of entailment that decomposes it at the level of dependency arcs. Rather than focusing on aggregate decisions, we instead ask whether the semantic relationship manifested by individual dependency arcs in the generated output is supported by the input. Human judgments on this task are difficult to obtain; we therefore propose a method to automatically create data based on existing entailment or paraphrase corpora. Experiments show that our dependency arc entailment model trained on this data can identify factual inconsistencies in paraphrasing and summarization better than sentence-level methods or those based on question generation, while additionally localizing the erroneous parts of the generation.
Inquisitive Question Generation for High Level Text Comprehension.Inquisitive probing questions come naturally to humans in a variety of settings, but is a challenging task for automatic systems. One natural type of question to ask tries to fill a gap in knowledge during text comprehension, like reading a news article: we might ask about background information, deeper reasons behind things occurring, or more. Despite recent progress with data-driven approaches, generating such questions is beyond the range of models trained on existing datasets.   We introduce INQUISITIVE, a dataset of ~19K questions that are elicited while a person is reading through a document. Compared to existing datasets, INQUISITIVE questions target more towards high-level (semantic and discourse) comprehension of text. We show that readers engage in a series of pragmatic strategies to seek information. Finally, we evaluate question generation models based on GPT-2 and show that our model is able to generate reasonable questions although the task is challenging, and highlight the importance of context to generate INQUISITIVE questions.
PALM: Pre-training an Autoencoding&Autoregressive Language Model for   Context-conditioned Generation.Self-supervised pre-training, such as BERT, MASS and BART, has emerged as a powerful technique for natural language understanding and generation. Existing pre-training techniques employ autoencoding and/or autoregressive objectives to train Transformer-based models by recovering original word tokens from corrupted text with some masked tokens. The training goals of existing techniques are often inconsistent with the goals of many language generation tasks, such as generative question answering and conversational response generation, for producing new text given context.   This work presents PALM with a novel scheme that jointly pre-trains an autoencoding and autoregressive language model on a large unlabeled corpus, specifically designed for generating new text conditioned on context. The new scheme alleviates the mismatch introduced by the existing denoising scheme between pre-training and fine-tuning where generation is more than reconstructing original text. An extensive set of experiments show that PALM achieves new state-of-the-art results on a variety of language generation benchmarks covering generative question answering (Rank 1 on the official MARCO leaderboard), abstractive summarization on CNN/DailyMail as well as Gigaword, question generation on SQuAD, and conversational response generation on Cornell Movie Dialogues.
Syn-QG: Syntactic and Shallow Semantic Rules for Question Generation.Question Generation (QG) is fundamentally a simple syntactic transformation; however, many aspects of semantics influence what questions are good to form. We implement this observation by developing Syn-QG, a set of transparent syntactic rules leveraging universal dependencies, shallow semantic parsing, lexical resources, and custom rules which transform declarative sentences into question-answer pairs. We utilize PropBank argument descriptions and VerbNet state predicates to incorporate shallow semantic content, which helps generate questions of a descriptive nature and produce inferential and semantically richer questions than existing systems. In order to improve syntactic fluency and eliminate grammatically incorrect questions, we employ back-translation over the output of these syntactic rules. A set of crowd-sourced evaluations shows that our system can generate a larger number of highly grammatical and relevant questions than previous QG systems and that back-translation drastically improves grammaticality at a slight cost of generating irrelevant questions.
All It Takes is 20 Questions!: A Knowledge Graph Based Approach.20 Questions (20Q) is a two-player game. One player is the answerer, and the other is a questioner. The answerer chooses an entity from a specified domain and does not reveal this to the other player. The questioner can ask at most 20 questions to the answerer to guess the entity. The answerer can reply to the questions asked by saying yes/no/maybe. In this paper, we propose a novel approach based on the knowledge graph for designing the 20Q game on Bollywood movies. The system assumes the role of the questioner and asks questions to predict the movie thought by the answerer. It uses a probabilistic learning model for template-based question generation and answers prediction. A dataset of interrelated entities is represented as a weighted knowledge graph, which updates as the game progresses by asking questions. An evolutionary approach helps the model to gain a better understanding of user choices and predicts the answer in fewer questions over time. Experimental results show that our model was able to predict the correct movie in less than 10 questions for more than half of the times the game was played. This kind of model can be used to design applications that can detect diseases by asking questions based on symptoms, improving recommendation systems, etc.
Keeping Notes: Conditional Natural Language Generation with a Scratchpad   Mechanism.We introduce the Scratchpad Mechanism, a novel addition to the sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) neural network architecture and demonstrate its effectiveness in improving the overall fluency of seq2seq models for natural language generation tasks. By enabling the decoder at each time step to write to all of the encoder output layers, Scratchpad can employ the encoder as a "scratchpad" memory to keep track of what has been generated so far and thereby guide future generation. We evaluate Scratchpad in the context of three well-studied natural language generation tasks --- Machine Translation, Question Generation, and Text Summarization --- and obtain state-of-the-art or comparable performance on standard datasets for each task. Qualitative assessments in the form of human judgements (question generation), attention visualization (MT), and sample output (summarization) provide further evidence of the ability of Scratchpad to generate fluent and expressive output.
Sequential Copying Networks.Copying mechanism shows effectiveness in sequence-to-sequence based neural network models for text generation tasks, such as abstractive sentence summarization and question generation. However, existing works on modeling copying or pointing mechanism only considers single word copying from the source sentences. In this paper, we propose a novel copying framework, named Sequential Copying Networks (SeqCopyNet), which not only learns to copy single words, but also copies sequences from the input sentence. It leverages the pointer networks to explicitly select a sub-span from the source side to target side, and integrates this sequential copying mechanism to the generation process in the encoder-decoder paradigm. Experiments on abstractive sentence summarization and question generation tasks show that the proposed SeqCopyNet can copy meaningful spans and outperforms the baseline models.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
Generating Natural Questions About an Image.There has been an explosion of work in the vision & language community during the past few years from image captioning to video transcription, and answering questions about images. These tasks have focused on literal descriptions of the image. To move beyond the literal, we choose to explore how questions about an image are often directed at commonsense inference and the abstract events evoked by objects in the image. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Visual Question Generation (VQG), where the system is tasked with asking a natural and engaging question when shown an image. We provide three datasets which cover a variety of images from object-centric to event-centric, with considerably more abstract training data than provided to state-of-the-art captioning systems thus far. We train and test several generative and retrieval models to tackle the task of VQG. Evaluation results show that while such models ask reasonable questions for a variety of images, there is still a wide gap with human performance which motivates further work on connecting images with commonsense knowledge and pragmatics. Our proposed task offers a new challenge to the community which we hope furthers interest in exploring deeper connections between vision & language.
